SPECIAL ISSUE                                              1
  Kenya Gazette Supplement No. 26                            1 1th December, 2025
            (Nairobi City County Legislative Supplement No. 16)
  Legal Notice No. 16
             THE NAIROBI CITY COUNTY TRANSPORT ACT
                        (No. 3 of 2020)
  THE NAIROBI CITY COUNTY (MOTORCYCLE TAXI (BODA BODA) PERMIT)
                       REGULATIONS, 2025
                   ARRANGEMENT OF REGULATIONS
  Regulation
                        PART I-PRELIMINARY
  1-Citation and Commencement.
  2—Application.
  3-Objects and Purpose.
  4-Interpretation.
  5—Role of the Directorate of Public Transport.
                PART II—REGULATION, ZONES AND PERMITS
  6—Mandatory Registration with a Transport Sacco or Company.
  7—Zonal Framework and Limitation of Permits (Policy).
  8—Application for Zone Permit by Sacco/Company.
  9—Assessment and Approval of Zone Permits.
  10—Motorcycle Taxi Permit (Rider Permit).
  11—Designated Picking and Dropping Points.
  12—E-Hailing Boda Operations.
            PART III—COMPLIANCE, SAFETY, AND ENFORCEMENT
  13—Marking, Signage, and Colour Coding.
 14-Renewal of Permit
 15—Suspension and Revocation of Permits.
 16—Safety Obligations.
17—Offences.
18—Penalty.
19—Database and Data Protection.
FIRST SCHEDULE
SECOND SCHEDULE


2  Nairobi City County Subsidiary Legislation, 2025
THIRD SCHEDULE
FOURTH SCHEDULE
FIFTH SCHEDULE


                  Nairobi City County Subsidiary Legislation, 2025                  3
                       THE NAIROBI CITY COUNTY TRANSPORT ACT
                                  (No. 3 of 2020)
   IN EXERCISE of the powers conferred by sections 34 and 68 of the Nairobi City
   County Transport Act, 2020, the County Executive Committe Member for Transport
  makes the following regulations:—
            THE NAIROBI CITY COUNTY (MOTORCYCLE TAXI (BODA BODA) PERMIT)
                                 REGULATIONS, 2025
                           PART I—PRELIMINARY
  Citation and Commencement
   1. (1) These Regulations may be cited as the Nairobi City County (Motorcycle Taxi
  (Boda Boda) Permit) Regulations, 2025.
   () These Regulations shall come into force upon publication in the Gazette.
  Application
   These Regulations shall apply to all motorcycles offering public transport or
 goods delivery services for commercial gain on public roads in Nairobi City County.
 Interpretation
   3. In these Regulations, unless the context otherwise requires —
   "Act" means the Nairobi City County Transport Act, 2020;
   "Authorised Officer" means an officer of the County designated by the Chief
 Officer or the Director to enforce these Regulations or the Act;
   "boda boda" means motorcycle taxi that is used for the transport of passengers and
 goods for a reward;
  "Central Business District" or "CBD" means the central business district of Nairobi
 as defined in the Act;
  "Chief Officer" means the officer appointed under Section 45 of the County
 Government Act and responsible for the department dealing with Transport;
  "Committee Member" means the County Executive Committee Member
 responsible for the time being for transport in Nairobi City County;
  Dcorate"means the Diretorat  ublTransport withi the departent fo
 the time being responsible for transport in Nairobi City County;
  "Director" means the Director appointed to head the Directorate of Public
 Transport;
        "e-hailing-Boda" means a two-wheeled motorcycle taxi used for hire and reward
 using electronic platforms operated by technology enabled companies;
                          "rk peri" r ermt"means  permi issu under he proviions  he A
allowing the holder to operate a motorcycle for commercial gain;
  Sacco" means a Transport, Savings and Credit Co-operative Society registered
under the Co-operative Societies Act;


   4          Nairobi City County Subsidiary Legislation, 2025
      "Zone" means an area of the road network for motorcycle operation designated by
the Committee Member.
Objects and Purpose
      4. The objects and purpose of these Regulations are to —
      (a)      provide for the comprehensive management and regulation of motorcycle taxi
          (boda boda) operations ensuring safety, order, and dignity within the County;
      (b)   provide for the issuance of permits for the operation of motorcycles carrying
          passengers and goods for commercial purposes within the County; and
      (c)         establish a Zonal framework for commercial motorcycle operations within
          the County.
Role of the Directorate of Public Transport
      5. (1) The Directorate shall be responsible for the day-to-day technical
implementation and enforcement of these Regulations.
      (2) The Directorate shall maintain an updated database record of all permitted boda
boda operators and two-wheeled motorcycles, updated regularly.
              PART II—REGULATION, ZONES AND PERMITS
 Mandatory Registration with a Transport Sacco or Company
   6. (1) No person shall operate a motorcycle for public transport or goods delivery
services unless the operator is a member of a registered Boda Boda Transport Sacco or
 Company.
      (2) All Boda Boda operations in the County shall be managed and regulated through
 Transport Saccos or Companies that meet the minimum requirements specified in
 Schedule One.
 Zonal Framework and Limitation of Permits
          7. (1) The Committee Member shall establish a zonal framework for Boda Boda
  operations within the County.
       (2) The geographical boundaries for each zone established under sub-regulation (1)
  are specified in the Fourth Schedule.
       (3) The Committee Member may, from time to time, define restricted areas for
   Boda Boda operation within the city zones, considering safety, mobility, and security.
       (4) The Committee Member may, from time to time, limit the maximum number of
   Boda Boda permits issued within city zones, considering safety and security.
   Application for Zone Permit by Sacco or a Company
       8. (1) A Boda Boda Transport Sacco or Company intending to operate in a specific
   Zone shall apply to the Directorate for a Zone Permit
       (2) The said permit shall be valid for a calendar year and shall be renewable.
       (3) An application made under sub-regulation (1) shall be in the form set out in
   Schedule Five and shall be accompanied by the documents listed in Schedule One,
   together with the prescribed application fee as stipulated in the relevant County Finance
   Act.


                 Nairobi City County Subsidiary Legislation, 2025                 5
     Assessment and Approval of Zone Permits
                    9. (1) The Directorate shall undertake a technical assessment of the Zone
     application, including motorcycle demand analysis, assessment of operational capability,
     and regulatory compliance.
                (2) Upon conducting the technical assessment, the Directorate shall prepare a
    mandatory Technical Report outlining its findings and recommendations.
              (3)The Directorate shall submit the application and the Technical Report to the
     Chief Officer for administrative determination.
                 (4) The Chief Officer shall consider the application and the recommendations
    contained in the Technical Report and shall, within twenty-eight days upon submission,
    notify the applicant in writing of the outcome.
     (5) The Chief Officer shall only grant a Zone Permit if the applicant meets all
    technical, operational, and safety conditions.
     (6) A Zone Permit issued under this regulation shall not be transferable.
    Motorcycle Taxi Permit
         10. (1) An application for the grant or renewal of a Motorcycle Taxi Permit for an
    individual rider shall be lodged with the Directorate by the Transport Sacco or Company
   to which the rider is a member.
                (2) The application shall contain the information and documents required in
   Schedule Five and Schedule Two and shall be accompanied by the prescribed fee as
  stipulated in the relevant County Finance Act.
              (3The Directorate shall assign each permitted motorcycle a unique identifying
  mark or number affixed conspicuously to the motorcycle.
      ) The rider of a motorcycle taxi shall carry their Permit or proof of its validity at
  all times and present it to an Authorised Officer upon request.
  Designated Picking and Dropping Points
             11. (1) No person shall operate a Stage-Boda from a non-designated picking and
  dropping point.
           (2) The Directorate shall technically assess and designate the maximum number of
  slots permitted in each stage, based on safety and transport demand within that location.
          (3) Each designated picking and dropping point shall be managed by a stage leader
       and shall have membership from Saccos and Companies according to the number of slots
 approved by the Directorate.
 E-Hailing Boda Operations
      12. (1) No person shall operate an e-hailing boda using a digital platform for public
              transport or goods delivery without a permit issued by the County through the
Directorate.
       (2) A digital platform transport service provider may apply to the Directorate for a
designated parking permit, which shall be assessed technically by the Directorate.
             (3)The Directorate shall specify the maximum number of slots permitted in each
designated e-hailing parking space based on physical space capacity and traffic impact.


 6                Nairobi City County Subsidiary Legislation, 2025
     (4) E-hailing Boda shall be permitted to drop passengers at designated Stage-Boda
picking and dropping points, and vice versa.
         PART III—COMPLIANCE, SAFETY, AND ENFORCEMENT
Marking, Signage, and Colour Coding
           13. (1) Every commercial motorcycle, helmet, and protective jacket shall be
inscribed with an identifier indicating the name or logo of the registered
Sacco/Company/Digital Platform.
    (2) Motorcycles operating within specific zones shall adhere to the specific colour
code requirements prescribed in Schedule Four.
Renewal of Permit
    14. (1) An application for renewal of a Sacco Permit or Motorcycle Permit shall be
made to the Directorate within fourteen days of the expiry date of the current permit.
         (2) An application made after six months from the expiry date of the previous
approved permit shall be considered a new application.
Suspension and Revocation of Permits
                15. (1) The Committee Member, upon receiving a recommendation from the
Directorate, may suspend a Transport Sacco Permit or Motorcycle Permit for a period not
exceeding three months if the holder contravenes any part of these regulations.
    (2) The Committee Member may withdraw or revoke a Zone Permit or Sacco
Permit upon determination of—
    (agross violation of laid down requirements;
    (b)           failure to meet conditions of the permit set out in the Act and these
         Regulations;
    (c)  submission of false or untrue information in the application process; or
     (d)               upon receipt of a written request for revocation by the assigned
         Sacco/Company.
     (3) A Sacco or Company whose permit has been revoked may re-apply for a permit
 only at the end of the period of revocation.
     (4) A Sacco or Company aggrieved by a decision of the Chief Officer to revoke a
permit may appeal in accordance with the Act within fourteen (14) days of receipt of the
 written decision.
 Safety Obligations
     16. (1) All Boda Boda operators and pillion passengers shall comply with the safety
 obligations, including wearing a certified helmet and reflective vest or reflective jacket at
 all times while operating or being transported.
      (2) A motorcycle rider shall not carry a load—
      (a)whose width projects more than fifteen centimeters beyond the outside end of
         the handlebars;
      (b)whose height is more than two metres from the ground;


         Nairobi City County Subsidiary Legislation, 2025                       7

              (c)whose weight is more than thirty kilograms for a motorcycle whose carrying
                     capacity does not exceed fifty cc and kilograms for a motorcycle whose
         carrying capacity does not exceed four hundred CC;
  (d) which projects to the rear beyond the maximum overall length of the
             motorcycle by more than sixty centimeters. The rear extremity of the load must
         be plainly indicated by a conspicuous re d marker during the day and by a red
         light at night.
  (2) The rider of a motorcycle carrying loads shall ensure that no part of the load
 carried drags on the road.
  (3) For the purpose of this regulation the term "load" excludes luggage carried by a
 passenger provided such luggage does not exceed ten kilograms in weight and does not
 project more than fifteen centimeters beyond the outside end of the handlebars.
           (4) The luggage in sub-regulation (3) may be carried together with the passenger
 provided the luggage is properly secured between the rider and the passenger.
 Offences
 17. (1) No motorcycle taxi shall—
  (apark or wait on a footway or obstruct pedestrian thoroughfare;
  (b) park on or within a carriageway that is regulated for parking except where
         designated for motorcycle taxi parking;
  (c)park in an area not designated for Boda Boda parking; on
  (d)contravene the Traffic Act.
Penalty
             18. (1) A person who contravenes any provision of these Regulations commits an
offence and is liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding twenty thousand shillings for a
      first offence and a fine not exceeding thirty thousand shillings for every subsequent
 offence or an imprisonment term not exceeding six months or both.
 Database and Data Protection
     19. (1) The Directorate shall maintain a database record of permitted Boda Boda
 operators and two-wheeled motorcycles.
 (2) All data and records collected are subiect to the Data Protection Act No. 24 of
2019 on the regulation of personal data processing in Kenya.


8         Nairobi City County Subsidiary Legislation, 2025

                       FIRST SCHEDULE
          SACCO/COMPANY REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS
S/No.     Document Required
(a)       Duly filled Application Form (Schedule Five)
          Valid certificate of registration as a Boda Boda Transport Sacco or
(b)      Transport Company

(c)       Proof of Membership of at least 300 public transport Boda Boda operators
(d)      Proof of Membership of at least 50 Courier Boda Boda operators

(e)       Detailed technical documentation of the Company/Sacco's Fleet
          Management System.
(f)       Valid Tax Compliance Certificate (KRA).


             Nairobi City County Subsidiary Legislation, 2025              9
             SECOND SCHEDULE
            INDIVIDUAL MOTORCYCLE TAXI PERMIT REOUIREMENTS
   S/No.     Document Required

 (a)         Duly filled Application Form (Schedule Five)
 (b)         Valid rider's license
 (c)         Passport size photograph of applicant
 (d)         Motorcycle registration document
 (e)         Third Party Public Service Vehicle Insurance Policy
 (f)        Medical certificate of fitness (if required by the Directorate)
(g)         Proof of identity (National ID)
(h)         Contact details and Next of Kin details


    10               Nairobi City County Subsidiary Legislation, 2025

                                      THIRD SCHEDULE
                                       FEES PAYABLE
The specific rates for fees shall be contained in the Nairobi City County Finance Act and
      subsequent Gazettement by the CECM for Finance, pursuant to the Public Finance
    Management Act.


           Nairobi City County Subsidiary Legislation, 2025       11

                           FOURTH SCHEDULE
                  COLOUR CODE REQUIREMENTS FOR ZONES
S/No.      Zone                                             Colour

    1.     CENTRAL ZONE (Central CBD, Makadara,              YELLOW
           Kamukunji, Starehe & Mathare)

    2.     NORTHERN ZONE (Westlands, Dagoretti South,        BLUE
           Dagoretti North)
3.         EASTERN ZONE (Kasarani, Ruaraka & Roysambu)       GREEN

4.         SOUTHERN ZONE (Embakasi East, Central, North,     LEMON
           West & South)                                     GREEN

5.         WESTERN ZONE (Kibera, Karen, Dagoreti South,     RED
           Kawangware, Lavington)
6.         ONLINE RIDERS (E-hailing)                        ORANGE


 12                  Nairobi City County Subsidiary Legislation, 2025

                                      FIFTH SCHEDULE
THE NAIROBI CITY COUNTY (MOTORCYCLE TAXI (BODA BODA) PERMIT)
                                    REGULATIONS, 2025
     Application Form for Permit Designation (Sacco/Company/Individual)
                               (Regulations 8(2) and 10(1))
                            APPLICATION FOR PERMIT DESIGNATION
(To be submitted to the Directorate of Public Transport)

Section             Details                                     Applicant
                                                                Response
 1.
 APPLICANT/SA        (i) Name of Sacco/Company:
 CCO DETAILS

                     (ii) Zone applied for (if Sacco):

                     (iii) Certificate/Registration No:

                     (iv) Contact Person/ID No:

                     (v) Current Membership (No.):

                     (vi) Date of Application:

2.
 MOTORCYCLE/        (i) Rider's Name:
 RIDER
 DETAILS

 (For Individual     (ii) Rider's License No:
Permits)
                     (iii) Motorcycle Registration No:

                     (iv) Means of propulsion (ICE/Electric):

3.
 ATTACHMENT          (As per Schedule One/Two)
 S REQUIRED

                    List attached documents:

                     I certify that the above information is    Applicant
 DECLARATION         correct and understand that false          Signature:
                     information may lead to rejection or
                     subsequent revocation of the permit.


                                   Nairobi City County Subsidiary Legislation, 2025    13

                               FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY (DIRECTORATE OF PUBLIC TRANSPORT)
 Technical Report Findings     (Assessment of zonal demand, vehicle compliance,
 (Reg 9(2)):                   safety record, and operational feasibility)

 Recommendation:               [ ] Approved / [ ] Rejected (Specify reasons below)

 Name of Inspecting
 Officer/Diretorate:

 Signature:

Date:
                    CHIEF OFFICER APPROVAL (reg. 9(4))
 Decision:          [ ] Permit Granted / [ ] Application Declined

Remarks:

Chief Officer
Signature:
Date:

 Made on the 1 1th November, 2025.
                                  IBRAHIM NYANGOYA AUMA.
                    County Executive Committee Member for Mobility and Public Works.









PRINTED AND PUBLISHED BY THE GOVERNMENT PRINTER, NAIROBI


NO_CONTENT_HERE