SPECIAL ISSUE 99
Kenya Gazette Supplement No. 15 13th February, 2026
(Legislative Supplement No. 11)
LEGAL NOTICE NO. 13
THE TRAFFIC ACT
(Cap. 403)
THE TRAFFIC (MOTOR VEHICLE INSPECTION) RULES, 2026
ARRANGEMENT OF RULES
Rule.
PART I—PRELIMINARY PROVISIONS
1—Citation and commencement.
2—Interpretation.
PART II—INSPECTION TESTS
3—Privately-owned motor vehicle inspection tests.
4—Annual inspection tests.
5—Inspection of school vehicles.
6—Pre-registration inspection tests.
7—Accident inspection tests.
8—Change-of-particulars inspection tests.
9—Police inspection tests.
10—Re-registration, alternative transfer and re-validation inspection
tests.
PART III—SALVAGE VEHICLES
11—Classification of salvage vehicles.
12—Salvage inspection tests.
PART IV—INSPECTION STANDARDS
13—Standards.
PART V—INSPECTION STICKERS
14—Inspection stickers and reports.
100 Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2026
15—Defect inspection stickers and reports.
16—Re-inspection tests.
PART VI—MOTOR VEHICLE INSPECTORS
17—Inspectors.
18—Production of inspector’s licence.
19—Suspension and revocation of inspectors’ licences.
20—Random inspection by Authority.
PART VII—MOTOR VEHICLE TESTING CENTRES
21—Private motor vehicle testing centres.
22—Licenses issued for privately-owned motor vehicle testing
centres.
23—Validity of licences.
24—Responsibilities of licensees.
25—Suspension and revocation of licences.
26—Records.
26—Inspection of centres.
28—Fees.
29—Booking fees.
PART VIII—OFFENCES AND PENALTIES
30—Offences and penalties.
Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2026 101
THE TRAFFIC ACT
(Cap. 403)
IN EXERCISE of the powers conferred by section 119(g) of
the Traffic Act, the Cabinet Secretary for Roads and Infrastructure
makes the following Rules—
THE TRAFFIC (MOTOR VEHICLE INSPECTION) RULES, 2026
PART I—PRELIMINARY PROVISIONS
1. These Rules may be cited as the Traffic (Motor Vehicle Citation and
Inspection) Rules, 2026, and shall come into operation on the 1st July, commencement.
2026.
2. In these Rules, unless the context otherwise requires— Interpretation.
“all-terrain vehicle” means a wheeled or tracked vehicle designed
for travel primarily on unprepared surfaces including open country but
does not include an implement of husbandry or construction machinery
and which is not intended for use on public roads;
“Authority” means the National Transport and Safety Authority Cap. 404.
established under section 3(1) of the National Transport and Safety
Authority Act;
“centre” means a motor vehicle testing centre including a motor
vehicle testing centre operated by the Authority and a privately-owned
motor vehicle testing centre;
“inspection test” means the assessment of a motor vehicle to
determine whether or not the motor vehicle conforms to Regulations
and standards governing safety;
“Inspector” means a person licensed by the Authority to conduct
inspection tests;
“inspection sticker” means a certificate, including a decal, issued
by the Authority or a licensed private motor vehicle inspection centre
that shall be affixed to a motor vehicle indicating the fitness status of
the motor vehicle after an inspection test;
“inspector licence” means a licence issued by the Authority
indicating that the person is authorised to conduct inspection tests;
“mobile motor vehicle testing unit” means a mobile motor
vehicle testing unit owned by the Authority or by a private party
licensed by the Authority to conduct motor vehicle testing;
102 Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2026
“privately-owned motor vehicle testing centre” means a privately-
owned place of business licensed by the Authority to conduct motor
vehicle testing and includes a privately-owned mobile motor vehicle
testing unit;
“privately-owned mobile motor vehicle testing unit licence” means
a licence issued by the Authority in respect of a privately-owned
mobile motor vehicle testing unit; and
“salvage vehicle” means—
(a) a motor vehicle which is damaged by collision, fire, flood,
accident, trespass or other occurrence to the extent that the
cost of repairing the motor vehicle for lawful operation on a
public road exceeds the fair market value of the motor
vehicle immediately prior to the damage; and
(b) a motor vehicle that has been declared a salvage vehicle by
an Inspector.
PART II—INSPECTION TESTS
3. (1) Subject to subrule (2), each motor vehicle, whether Motor vehicle
privately-owned or owned by a Government entity, once in each year, inspection tests.
that is older than four years since the recorded date of manufacture
shall be subjected to an inspection test.
(2) The following motor vehicles shall not be required to undergo
inspection tests—
(a) tractors used exclusively for agricultural purposes;
(b) golf carts;
(c) motorised pedal cycles; and
(d) all-terrain vehicles:
Provided that the vehicles specified in paragraph (a), (b), (c) or
(d) shall not be driven or operated on a public road unless they have
undergone an inspection test.
(3) Each tractor used for the haulage of agricultural produce that
is older than four years since the recorded date of manufacture shall,
whether privately-owned or owned by a Government entity, once in
each year, be subjected to an inspection test.
4. (1) Each public service vehicle, commercial vehicle, driving Annual inspection
school vehicle, vehicle owned by the national government and vehicle tests.
Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2026 103
owned by a county government shall, once in each year, undergo an
inspection test by the Authority.
(2) Despite sub-rule 3(1), each public service vehicle,
commercial vehicle and school vehicle shall, regardless of the age of
the vehicle, once in each year, undergo an inspection test by the
Authority.
5. Each school vehicle shall, at least once every year, undergo Inspection of
an inspection test by the Authority. school vehicles.
6. Each new commercial vehicle, public service vehicle, Pre-registration
driving school vehicle, school vehicle and locally assembled vehicle inspection tests.
shall undergo an inspection test by the Authority before the motor
vehicle is registered.
7. Any motor vehicle that has been involved in an accident may Accident
be subjected to an inspection test by the Authority. inspection tests.
8. Any motor vehicle that undergoes any change in its length, Change-of-
height, width, maximum payload, colour, engine or any other structural particulars
inspection tests.
or mechanical change shall undergo an inspection test by the Authority
after the change.
9. These Rules shall not affect the right of a police officer in Police inspection
uniform or an Inspector to inspect any motor vehicle in accordance tests.
with section 105(1) of the Act.
10. (1) Any motor vehicle that is intended to be re-registered Re-registration,
shall undergo an inspection test conducted by the Authority before it is alternative and
transfer inspection
re-registered.
tests.
(2) Any motor vehicle that undergoes an alternative motor
vehicle transfer shall undergo a motor vehicle test by the Authority
before the motor vehicle can be transferred.
(3) Any motor vehicle that is missing from the Authority’s online
records shall undergo an inspection by the Authority before the details
relating to that motor vehicle are entered into the Authority’s online
records.
PART III—SALVAGE VEHICLES
11. (1) Salvage vehicles shall be classified as follows— Classification of
salvage vehicles.
(a) Category A or Actual Loss Category which is a salvage
vehicle that has been found to be unsuitable for use on a
public road or the salvage vehicle is beyond repair; and
104 Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2026
(b) Category B or Structural Damage Category which is a
salvage vehicle that has suffered damage that is detrimental
to the motor vehicle’s structural rigidity, but which is
repairable.
(2) The determination of the classification of a salvage vehicle
under sub-rule (1) shall be made by an Inspector.
12. (1) A person shall not operate any Category B salvage Salvage
vehicle on a public road unless— inspection tests.
(a) it has been repaired to a degree that it is capable of being
safely operated on a public road;
(b) it has undergone an inspection test and been certified as
being safe to be operated on a public road; and
(c) the registration details of the motor vehicle have been
submitted to the Authority for endorsement to reflect the
salvage status of the motor vehicle.
(2) A Category A salvage vehicle—
(a) shall not be operated on a public road; and
(b) shall be de-registered by the Authority and its number plates
withdrawn.
(3) A Category B salvage vehicle shall have its number plates
retained by the Authority and shall not be operated on a public road.
(4) The Authority shall return the number plates of a Category B
salvage vehicle and permit its operation on public roads only after it
has undergone repairs to make it roadworthy and it has undergone a
motor vehicle inspection by the Authority.
(5) An insurance company, or any entity or individual who fails
to report to the Authority that a vehicle has been classified as a salvage
vehicle commits an offence.
(6) A person who operates motor vehicle that should be classified
as a salvage vehicle without the salvage status of the vehicle being
endorsed on its registration details commits an offence.
PART IV—INSPECTION STANDARDS
13. (1) Each inspection test shall be conducted in accordance Standards.
with—
(a) Kenya Standard KS 1515 or similar standard approved by
the Kenya Bureau of Standards; and
Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2026 105
(b) the standards set out in the Second Schedule.
(2) The Authority shall provide each operator of a motor vehicle
inspection centre with a system for the submission of inspection test
results in respect of each motor vehicle that has undergone an
inspection test.
PART V—INSPECTION STICKERS
14. (1) An inspector shall issue an inspection sticker and Inspection stickers
inspection report in respect of each motor vehicle that passes an and reports.
inspection test.
(2) No person shall operate a motor vehicle on a public road
unless the motor vehicle is affixed with a valid inspection sticker.
(3) Any person who operates a motor vehicle on a public road
that does not have affixed to it a valid inspection sticker commits an
offence and shall be liable, on conviction, to the penalty specified in
section 118(2) of the Act.
15. (1) An inspector shall issue a defect inspection sticker and Defect inspection
defect inspection report in respect of each motor vehicle that does not stickers and
reports.
pass an inspection test.
(2) A defect inspection report shall specify the repairs that require
to be undertaken on a motor vehicle that fails an inspection test.
16. (1) The owner of a motor vehicle that fails an inspection test Re-inspection
shall cause the repairs specified in the defect inspection report to be tests.
made to the motor vehicle before it is presented for re-inspection.
(2) Where a vehicle that failed an inspection test is presented for
re-inspection within fourteen days after the issuance of the defect
inspection report at the motor vehicle inspection centre where the failed
inspection test had been undertaken, the re-inspection test shall be
undertaken at no cost to the motor vehicle owner.
(3) Where a vehicle that failed an inspection test is presented for
re-inspection after the expiry of fourteen days after the date of the
issuance of the defect inspection report or it is presented for re-
inspection at a different motor vehicle inspection centre, the owner of
the motor vehicle shall bear the cost of the re-inspection test.
(4) The owner of a motor vehicle that failed an inspection test
shall not—
(a) operate the motor vehicle on any public road after the failed
inspection test except for the purposes of taking the vehicle
106 Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2026
to a place where the repairs specified in the defect inspection
report shall be undertaken; and
(b) in the case of a public service vehicle or commercial vehicle,
the operation of the motor vehicle shall not be for the
purposes of the carriage of passengers or goods.
PART VI—MOTOR VEHICLE INSPECTORS
17. (1) A person who wishes to be appointed as an inspector for Inspectors.
the purposes of these Rules shall apply to the Authority in writing.
(2) An application under subrule (1) shall be accompanied by the
fee specified in the First Schedule.
(3) A person is qualified to be appointed as an inspector if that
person—
(a) possesses, at a minimum, a diploma in motor vehicle
engineering, mechanical engineering or automotive
engineering from an institution recognised in Kenya;
(b) has at least three years relevant experience in the motor
vehicle industry;
(c) has successfully undertaken an entry training course
authorised by the Authority; and
(d) has a valid driving licence.
(4) The Authority shall issue each qualified person with an
inspector’s licence.
(5) An inspector’s licence shall be valid for a period of one year
from the date of issuance and shall be renewed in accordance with
subrules (1) and (2).
(6) An inspector shall conduct inspection tests in accordance with
these Rules and, in respect of each motor vehicle presented for an
inspection test, verify the registration details before conducting the test.
(7) Each inspector shall be solely responsible for the results of an
inspection test uploaded onto the system provided by the Authority.
18. An inspector shall, when performing the functions of an Production of
inspector under these Rules, produce his or her inspector’s licence inspector’s
licence.
when requested to do so.
19. (1) The Authority may suspend, revoke or refuse to renew an Suspension and
inspector’s licence if— revocation of
inspectors’
licences.
Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2026 107
(a) the inspector conducts inspections in a manner contrary to
these rules;
(b) the inspector engages in corrupt practices when conducting
inspections including soliciting and receiving a bribe in
respect of an inspection.
(2) The Authority may refuse to issue an applicant with an
inspector’s licence if the applicant made a false statement in respect of
an application for an inspector’s licence under rule 16(1).
(3) A person aggrieved by the decision of the Authority may
within seven days seek for a review of the decision of the Authority and
the Authority shall convey its decision within fourteen days.
(4) A person who is dissatisfied by the decision of the Authority
after the review under subrule (3) may appeal against the decision to
the Transport Licensing Appeals Board.
20. The Authority may conduct random checks of inspectors to Random
determine whether or not the inspectors are complying with these inspection by
Authority.
Rules.
PART VII—MOTOR VEHICLE TESTING CENTRES
21. (1) A person who intends to operate a private motor vehicle Private motor
testing centre shall apply to the Authority for a licence and pay the fee vehicle testing
centres.
prescribed in the First Schedule.
(2) Whenever it becomes necessary, the Authority shall, by notice
in at least one newspaper with a nationwide circulation, invite
applicants for licences to operate private motor vehicle testing centres
and shall specify in such notice the requirements to be met for issuance
of the licences.
22. (1) The Authority shall issue an applicant with a licence Licenses issued
under these Rules if the person can demonstrate to the satisfaction of for privately-
owned motor
the Authority that the person has the requisite land, infrastructure,
vehicle testing
capital and equipment to establish and operate a motor vehicle testing
centres.
center.
(2) The Authority shall not issue a person with a licence under
these Rules—
(a) if that person is a licensed motor vehicle assembler; and
(b) if that person is engaged in the business of repairing motor
vehicles.
108 Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2026
(2) A licence issued in respect of a private motor vehicle testing
centre shall not be transferrable or assignable to any other person.
(3) Each licensed private motor vehicle testing centre shall—
(a) at all relevant times, have the necessary equipment for
conducting inspections;
(b) be capable of conducting inspection tests in accordance with
these Rules and the applicable standards; and
(c) not issue a motor vehicle inspection sticker in respect of any
motor vehicle unless that vehicle has undergone an
inspection test in accordance with these Rules and the
applicable standards.
(4) A licence issued in respect of a privately owned motor vehicle
testing centre shall authorise—
(a) inspection tests in the premises named in the licence; and
(b) inspection of the category or classes specified in the licence.
(5) Despite any other provision of these Rules, the owner or
operator of a public service vehicle shall net be not be issued with a
licence to operate a private motor vehicle testing centre.
23. (1) A licence issued in respect of a private motor vehicle Validity of
testing centre shall be valid for a period of five years from the date of licences.
issuance.
(2) The holder of a licence issued in respect of a private motor
vehicle testing centre may apply to the Authority for renewal of the
licence and pay the fee prescribed in the First Schedule.
(3) The Authority may, before renewal of a licence, inspect or
cause the inspection of the premises in respect of which the application
for renewal of a licence is made and where the premises do not comply
with these Rules or the applicable standards, may refuse to renew the
licence until the premises attains compliance.
(4) Where the premises do not comply with these Rules or the
applicable standards, the Authority may refuse to renew the licence
until the premises attains compliance.
24. The holder of a licence issued in respect of a private motor Responsibilities of
vehicle testing centre shall be responsible for the operation of the licensees.
centre and ensure that—
Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2026 109
(a) inspection stickers are only issued in respect of motor
vehicles that have undergone an inspection test at the centre;
(b) only licensed inspectors conduct inspection tests at the
centre;
(c) each inspector conducting inspection tests at the centre is
issued with a copy of the relevant standards;
(d) keep and maintain a record of each inspection test conducted
at the centre;
(e) produce when requested by the Authority or a person
authorised in that respect copies of the record of each
inspection test conducted at the centre;
(f) the centre is at all times be equipped with the necessary
equipment for conducting inspections; and
(g) the Authority is notified of any motor vehicle presented for
an inspection test in respect of which the registration details
are inaccurate or contain inconsistencies.
25. (1) The Authority may revoke the licence of the holder of a Suspension and
licence issued in respect of a privately-owned motor vehicle testing revocation of
licences.
center, or suspend the licence where—
(a) the licensee made false statements or representations in
respect of the application for the license; or
(b) the licensee contravenes any of the provisions of these Rules.
(2) A person aggrieved by the decision of the Authority may
within seven days appeal to the Transport Licensing Appeals Board
established under section 39 of the National Transport Safety Authority
Act. Cap. 404.
26. (1) Each private motor vehicle testing centre shall keep— Records.
(a) a copy of the licence of each inspector conducting inspection
tests at the centre; and
(b) a copy of each certificate and record of inspection test issued
by the centre.
(2) Each private motor vehicle testing centre shall keep the
records required under subrule (1)—
(a) for at least five years; and
110 Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2026
(b) in the format and medium prescribed by the Authority.
27. (1) The Authority may inspect a private motor vehicle Inspection of
testing centre and its operations to— centres.
(a) ascertain the state of compliance with these Rules and the
applicable standards;
(b) ascertain the adequacy of the records management systems
of the centre;
(c) ascertain the qualifications of the inspectors conducting
inspection tests at the centre; and
(d) investigate any complaint made against the centre or an
inspector conducting inspection tests at the centre.
(2) The Authority may, without prior notice but during normal
business hours, enter a private motor vehicle testing centre to conduct
an inspection for the purposes specified in subrule (1).
28. Each operator of a private motor vehicle testing centre shall, Fees.
in respect of each inspection test—
(a) charge the fees prescribed by the First Schedule in respect of
the relevant motor vehicle inspection test; and
(b) display the fee schedule in a prominent place in the centre.
29. (1) Each person who wishes to have a private motor vehicle Booking fees.
inspected in accordance with these Rules shall pay to the Authority the
booking fee specified in the First Schedule in respect of the motor
vehicle before submitting the vehicle to the private motor vehicle
testing centre to conduct the inspection.
(2) A person who has paid the booking fee specified in sub-rule
(1) shall present proof of the payment to the private motor vehicle
testing centre at the time of submitting the vehicle for inspection.
(3) The operator of a private motor vehicle inspection centre shall
not conduct an inspection unless the proof of payment of the booking
fee required under sub-rule (1) is presented.
PART VIII—OFFENCES AND PENALTIES
30. (1) A person commits an offence if that person— Offences and
penalties.
(a) operates or, as the owner of a motor vehicle, allows another
person to operate on a public road or a public place a motor
vehicle for which an inspection test is required has not been
conducted;
Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2026 111
(b) affixes on a motor vehicle an inspection sticker that has been
issued in respect of a different motor vehicle;
(c) alters, without the authorisation of the Authority, an
inspection report issued by a motor vehicle testing centre; or
(d) performs any act that is intended to circumvent the
requirements of these Rules.
(2) A person convicted of an offence under subrule (1) shall be
liable, in addition to any other penalties prescribed under the Act, to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding six months or a fine not
exceeding twenty thousand shillings or to both.
112 Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2026
FIRST SCHEDULE [rr. 16(2), 20(1),
22(2), 28(1)(a), 29(1)]
Fees
A. Motor vehicle inspection fees
S/No. Type of inspection Booking fee Max inspection fee
(NTSA) (Centre)
Ksh. Ksh.
1. Inspection of motorcycles and 200 300
three-wheeled motor vehicles
2. Inspection of motor vehicles 1,000 1,000
with engine capacity of less
than 3,000 cubic centimetres
or electric vehicles with
battery capacity of less than
150 kilowatt hours
3. Inspection of motor vehicles 1,000 1,000
with engine capacity
exceeding 3,000 cubic
centimetres or electric
vehicles with battery capacity
of more than 151 kilowatt
hours
4. Inspection of trailers weighing 1,000 1,000
less than 5 tonnes
5. Inspection of trailers weighing 1,000 1,000
more than 5 tonnes
6. Inspection of commercial 1,000 1,000
vehicles weighing less than 5
tonnes
7. Inspection of commercial 1,000 1,000
vehicles weighing more than 5
tonnes
8. Accident vehicle inspections 1,000
B. Application fees
Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2026 113
S/No. Type of application Fee
(Kshs.)
1. Inspector’s licence, annual 2,000
2. CLUSTER 1: Motor vehicle inspection centre (Nairobi 1,000,000
City, Kiambu, Mombasa, Nakuru, Machakos, Nyandarua,
Meru, Kisumu, Bungoma, Kakamega, Narok, Nyeri,
Murang’a, Kisii, Uasin Gishu, Bomet, Elgeyo/Marakwet,
Nandi, Kilifi, Trans Nzoia, Homa Bay, Kajiado and Embu
3. CLUSTER 2: Motor vehicle inspection centre (Nyamira, 500,000
Kitui, Makueni, Kirinyaga, Migori, Siaya, Baringo, Busia,
Kericho, Kwale, Laikipia, Turkana, Tharaka-Nithi,
Vihiga, Taita/Taveta, West Pokot, Garissa, Wajir,
Mandera, Marsabit, Tana River, Lamu, Samburu and
Isiolo)
4. Private motor vehicle inspection mobile unit 300,000
114 Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2026
SECOND SCHEDULE [r. 12(1)(a)]
List of Standards for Motor Vehicle Inspection Tests
S/No. Standard Description
1. KS 2295-2 Maximum road speed limiters for motor
vehicles, Part 1: Performance and installation
requirements
2. KS 2295-2 Maximum road speed limiters for motor
vehicles, Part 2: Specification for system and
component requirements
3. KS 372 Road vehicle – Passenger vehicle body
constructions – Specifications
4. KS 1515 Code of Practice for Inspection of Road
Vehicles
5. KS 2499 Road Vehicles – Inspection Centre Evaluation
– Code of Practice
6. KS EAS 1047 East African Standard Vehicle Exhaust
Emission Limits
7. KNWA 2460 Code of Practice for Motor Vehicles Garages
for Repair and Services
Made on the 9th February, 2026.
DAVIS CHIRCHIR,
Cabinet Secretary for Roads and Transport.