SPECIAL ISSUE

Kenya Gazette Supplement No. 102 (National Assembly Bills No. 30)






   REPUBLIC OF KENYA


   KENYA GAZETTE SUPPLEMENT

   NATIONAL ASSEMBLY BILLS, 2024

   NAIROBI, 9th May, 2024

   CONTENT

Bill for Introduction into the National Assembly—
                                                 PAGE
  The Finance Bill. 2024                         551






   P.O. Box 41842 - 00100,
   NAIROBI


   PRINTED AND PUBLISHED BY THE GOVERNMENT PRINTER, NAIROBT


NO_CONTENT_HERE


          551
 THE FINANCE BILL, 2024
        A Bill for
        AN ACT of Parliament to amend the law relating to
     various taxes and duties; and for matters incidental
 thereto
 ENACTED by the Parliament of Kenya as follows—
        PARTI-PRELIMINARY
        1. This Act may be cited as the Finance Act, 2024. Short title and
and shall come into operation, or be deemed to have come   commencement
into operation, as follows-
   (a) on the 1st September, 2024, section 42(a)(i)(D),(J)
 and (K);
 (b) on the 1st January, 2025, sections 8, 12 and
 25(b)(v); and
 (c) all other sections, on the 1st July. 2024.
        PART II-INCOME TAX
 2. Section 2 of the Income Tax Act is amended-            Amendment of
                                                           section 2 of Cap.
 (a) in the definition of "digital content monetisation".  470.
 by inserting the following new paragraphs
 immediately after paragraph (h)—
 )creative works;
 (k) creating or sharing of the material; or
 )any other material that is not exempt under this
 Act;
 (b) in the definition of "individual retirement fund".
 by deleting the words "and registered individual
 retirement fund means an individual retirement
 fund where the trust deed for such a fund has been
 registered with the Commissioner";
 (c) in the definition of "pension fund", by deleting the
             words "and registered pension fund means one
          which has been registered with the Commissioner
 in such manner as may be prescribed":
 in the definition of "provident fund", by deleting
 the words "and registered provident fund means


552                   The Finance Bill, 2024
        one which has been registered with the
        Commissioner in such manner as may be
        prescribed";
       (e by deleting the definition of "wife's employment
        income";
       () by deleting the definition of "wife's professional
       income";
       (g) by deleting the definition of "wife's professional
        income rate
       (h) by deleting the definition of "wife's self-
        employment income
       (i by deleting the definition of "wife's self-
       employment income rate";
       j) by deleting the definition of "related person" and
        substituting  therefor the following new
                                                           new
        definition-
       "related person" means in the case of two persons,
  either person who participates directly or indirectly in the
   management, control or capital of the business of the other
person, and in the case of more than the two persons, —
       (a) any other person who participates directly or
        indirectly in the management, control or capital of
        the business of the two persons; or
       (b) an individual who—
        (i) participates directly or indirectly in the
             management, control or capital of the business
        of the two persons; and
        (ii) is associated to the two persons by marriage,
              consanguinity or affinity and the two persons
         participate in the management, control or
         capital of the business of the individual;
       (k) by deleting the definition of "royalty" and
        substituting  therefor the following       new
                II
        definition
       "royalty" means a payment made as a consideration
for the use or the right to use-
       (a) any copyright of a literary, artistic or scientific
       work;


                          The Finance Bill, 2024                553
 (b) any software, proprietary or off-the-shelf, whether
 in the form of licence, development, training,
 maintenance or support fees and includes the
 distribution of the software;
 (c) any cinematograph film, including a film or tape
 for radio or television broadcasting;
 (d) any patent, trademark, design or model, plan,
 formula or process;
 (e) any industrial, commercial or scientific equipment;
 or
 (f) information concerning industrial, commercial or
 scientific equipment or experience, and any gains
 derived from the sale or exchange of any right or
 property giving rise to that royalty;
 (l) by inserting the following new definitions in
          proper alphabetical sequence—
 "donation" means a benefit in money in any form,
promissory note or a benefit in kind conferred on a person
without any consideration;
 "public entity" means a ministry, state department,
state corporation, county department or agency of the
national or county Government;
 "registered individual retirement fund" means an
individual retirement fund where the trust deed for such a
fund has been registered with the Retirement Benefits
Authority;
 "registered pension fund" means a pension fund which
has been registered with the Retirement Benefits Authority;
         "registered provident fund" means a provident fund
which has been registered with the Retirement Benefits
Authority.
 3. Section 3 of the Income Tax Act is amended in           Amendment of
subsection (3), by deleting paragraph (ba) and substituting  section 3 of Cap
therefor the following new paragraph—                        470
              (ba) "digital marketplace" means an online or
          electronic platform which enables a person
          to sell or provide goods, property or services
          including


554                              The Finance Bill, 2024
                       (a) ride-hailing services;
                       (b) food delivery services;
                       (c) freelance services;
                       (d) professional services;
                       (e) rental services;
                      () task-based services; and
                       (g) any other service that is not exempt from
                       tax under this Act.
          4. Section 4A of the Income Tax Act is amended in Amendment of
                                                                    section 4A of Cap.
subsection (1)(ii), by deleting the words "five years" and          470.
                                                                    470.
substituting therefor the words "three years".
          5. The Income Tax Act is amended by inserting the         Insertion of new
                                                                    section 4C to Cap
following new section immediately after section 4B—                 470.
                                                                    470.
Income from supply     4C. The payment received by a person
of goods to public     from a public entity for the supply of goods
entity                   shall be deemed to be the income of the
                        person for the year of income in which the
                       payment is received.
          6.Section 5 of the Income Tax Act is amended—             Amendment of
                                                                    section 5 of Cap.
                                                                    470.
                                                                    470.
          (a) in subsection (2)—
                     i in paragraph () (iii), by deleting the words
                      "the first two thousand shillings" and
           substituting therefor the words "and the
           employer has a policy on the payment and
                            accounting for subsistence, travelling,
                      entertainment or other allowances, an amount
           not exceeding five per cent of the monthly
                      gross earnings of the employee";
          (ii) in paragraph (b), by deleting the words "thirty-
                           six thousand shillings" and substituting
           therefor the words "forty-eight thousand
                      shillings";
          (b) in subsection (4)-
                 (i)in paragraph (f), by deleting the words "forty-
                      eight thousand shillings" and substituting
                      therefor the word "sixty thousand shillings".


                              The Finance Bill, 2024                             555
                                                                                 555
                 (ii) by inserting the following new paragraph
                 immediately after paragraph (f)-
                        (fa) any amount paid or granted to a public
                                officer to reimburse an expenditure
                          incurred for the purpose of performing
                            official duties, notwithstanding the
                                 ownership or control of any assets
                      purchased;
               iii) in paragraph (g), by deleting the words "two
                 hundred and forty thousand shillings"
                  appearing in paragraph (a) of the proviso and
                 substituting therefor the words "three hundred
                 and sixty thousand shillings".
 7.Section 10 of the Income Tax Act is amended by Amendment of
inserting the following new subsections immediately after          section 10 of Cap
                                                                   470.
subsection (3)—                                                    470.
                 ) Where a resident or a non-resident person,
                 being the owner or operator of a digital
                 marketplace or platform, makes or facilitates
                  payment in respect of digital content monetisation,
                    goods, property or services, the amount thereof
                 shall be deemed to be income which accrued in or
                 was derived from Kenya.
                 (5) In this section, "platform" means a digital
                  platform or website that facilitates the exchange of
                   a short-term engagement, freelance or provision of
                    a service, between a service provider, who is an
                 independent contractor or freelancer, and a client
 or customer.
 8. The Income Tax Act is amended by repealing Repeal and
section 12E and replacing it with the following new                replacement of
                                                                   section 12E of
section-                                                           Cap. 470.
Significant economic  12E. (1) Notwithstanding any other
presence tax.     provision of this Act, a tax known as
                  significant economic presence tax shall be
                  payable by a non-resident person whose
                  income from the provision of services is
                  derived from or accrues in Kenya through a
                             business carried out over a digital
                  marketplace.


556                   The Finance Bill, 2024
                     (2) Subsection (1) shall not apply—
                     (a) to a non-resident person who offers
                      the services through a permanent
                      establishment; or
                     (b) to an income chargeable under
                      section 9(2) or section 10.
                     (3) For the purposes of computing the
       tax under subsection (1), the taxable profit
       of a person liable to pay the tax shall be
       deemed to be twenty per cent of the gross
       turnover.
                     (4) A person subject to tax under this
       section shall submit a return and pay the tax
       due to the Commissioner on or before the
       twentieth day of the month following the
       end of the month in which the service was
       offered.
                         (5) The Cabinet Secretary may make
       Regulations for the better implementation of
       this section.
       9. The Income Tax Act is amended by inserting the     Insertion of new
                                                             sections 12G and
following new sections immediately after section 12F-        12H of Cap. 470.
Minimum top-up tax.  12G. (1)Notwithstanding any other
       provision of this Act, a tax known as
       minimum top-up tax shall be payable by a
       covered person where the combined
       effective tax rate in respect of that person for
       a year of income is less than fifteen per cent.
                     (②) The combined effective tax rate for
       a covered person shall be the sum of all the
       adjusted covered taxes, divided by the sum
       of all net income or loss for the year of
                     income, multiplied by a hundred.
                     (3) The amount of tax payable shall be
       the difference between fifteen per cent of the
                net income or loss for the year of income of
       a covered person, and the combined
                  effective tax rate for the year of income,
       multiplied by the excess profit of the
       covered persons.


                                               557
  The Finance Bill, 2024                       557
 (4) This section shall not apply—
 (a) to a public entity that is not
  engaged in business;
 (b) to a person whose income is exempt
  from tax under paragraph 10 of the
  First Schedule;
 (c) to a pension fund and the assets of
  that pension fund;
 (d) to a real estate investment vehicle
  that is an ultimate parent entity;
               e) to a non-operating investment
  holding company;
            () to an investment fund that is an
  ultimate parent entity;
 (g) to a sovereign wealth fund; or
 (h) to an intergovernmental or
                                            Ior
  supranational          organisation
                including a wholly owned agency
              or organ of the intergovernmental
  or supranational organisation.
 (5) In this section—
           "adjusted covered taxes" means taxes
recorded in the financial accounts of a
 constituent entity for the income, profits, or
      share of the income or profits of a
 constituent entity where the constituent
  entity owns an interest, and includes taxes
     on distributed profits, deemed profit
distributions under this Act subject to such
adjustments as may be prescribed;
              "covered person" means a resident
            person or a person with a permanent
establishment in Kenya who is a member of
      a multinational group and the group has a
          consolidated annual turnover of seven
hundred and fifty million Euros or more in
   the consolidated financial statements of the
ultimate parent entity in at least two of the


558                           The Finance Bill, 2024

                      four years of income immediately preceding
                      the tested year of income;
                       "net income or loss" means the sum net
                      income or loss for the year of income after
                      deducting the sum of the losses of a covered
                      person as determined under a recognised
                      accounting standards in Kenya; and
                       "excess profit" means the net income or
                      loss of a covered person for the year of
                      income less—
                       (a) ten per cent for the employee costs;
                              and
                       (b) eight per cent for the net book value
                              of tangible assets.
                      Provided that the employee cost and
                      book value of tangible assets may be
                      adjusted as prescribed in regulations.
                       (6) This section shall come into
                      operation on the 1st January, 2025.
Motor vehicle tax.     12H. (1) Notwithstanding any other
                      provision of this Act, a tax known as motor
                      vehicle tax shall be payable to the
                        Commissioner on each motor vehicle at the
                      time of the issuance of an insurance cover.
                           (2) Motor vehicle tax shall be payable
                      based on the value of the motor vehicle, at
                      based on the value of the motor vehicle, at
                      the rate specified in the Third Schedule.
                                  Provided that the amount of tax
                      payable-
                       (a) shall not be less than five thousand
                              shillings; and
                              shillings; and
                       (b) shall not be more than one hundred
                              thousand shillings.
                       (3) The value of a motor vehicle shall
                      be determined on the basis of the make.
                      be determined on the basis of the make,
                      model, engine capacity in cubic centimetres
                      and year of manufacture of the motor
                      vehicle.
                      vehicle.


                  The Finance Bill, 2024                  559
                (4) An insurer of a motor vehicles shall
                collect and remit motor vehicle tax within
               five working days after issuing a motor
               vehicle insurance cover.
                   (5) An insurer who fails to collect and
              remit motor vehicle tax shall be liable to
              pay-
                (a) a penalty equivalent to fifty per cent
                  of the uncollected tax; and
                (b) the actual amount of the
                  uncollected tax.
                (6 Notwithstanding the provisions of
              this section, motor vehicle tax shall not be
               payable in respect of an ambulance, or a
               motor vehicle owned by the national
               government, county government, Kenya
               Defence Forces, National Police Service,
              National Intelligence Service or a person
Cap. 179.     exempt from tax under the Privileges and
Cup. 179.     Immunities Act.
                (7) The Commissioner may prescribe
    such guidelines as may be appropriate for
              the purposes of determining the valuation of
              a motor vehicle.
    10. Section 15 of the Income Tax Act is amended—      Amendment of
                                                          section 15 of Cap.
                                                          470
    (a) in subsection (2)—
     (i) in paragraph (ga), by deleting the expression
          "section 5(b)" and substituting therefor the
    expression "section 4(2)(b)":
    (ii) by inserting the following new paragraph
    immediately after paragraph (ga)—
    (gb) the amount considered as representing
                    the diminution in value of any
                implement, utensil or similar article
                employed in the production of gains or
                profits, not being machinery or plant in
                 respect of which a deduction may be
                 made under the Second Schedule, at a


560                         The Finance Bill, 2024
                     rate of one hundred per cent in that year
                     of income;
                     (iii) by inserting the following new paragraphs
       immediately after paragraph (ab)—
       (ac) contributions made to the Social Health                  No. 16 of 2023.
                      Insurance Fund in accordance with
                      section 27(a) and (b) of the Social
                      Health Insurance Act, 2023;
                         (ad) in the case of an employee, the amount
                      deducted in accordance with section
                              5(1)(a) of the Affordable Housing Act, No. 2 of 2024.
                     2024;
       (ae) a contribution to a post-retirement
                         medical fund subject to a limit of ten
                      thousand shillings per month;
          (b) in subsection (3)(b), by deleting the words "three
                    hundred thousand shillings" and substituting
                    therefor the words "three hundred and sixty
       thousand shillings";
        (c) in subsection (7)(a), by deleting the word "seven".
              11. Section 18 of the Income Tax Act is amended by     Amendment of
                                                                     section 18 of Cap.
deleting subsection (6).                                             470.
       12. The Income Tax Act is amended by inserting the Insertion of a new
                                                                     section 18G to
following new section immediately after section 18F-                 Cap.470
Advance pricing        18G. (1) The Commissioner may enter
agreement          into an advance pricing agreement with any
                   person who undertakes a transaction
                   contemplated under section 18(3) or section
                   18A.
                              (2) The arm's length price for the
                    transaction contemplated under section
                    18(3) or section 18A shall be determined in
                    accordance with the advance pricing
                    agreement entered into under subsection (1).
                      3The advance pricing agreement
                    entered into under subsection (1) shall be
                    valid for a period that does not exceed five
                    consecutive years.


                          The Finance Bill, 2024                    561
                      ( Where the Commissioner
                      (4)
    determines that the person referred to in
               subsection (1) entered into the advance
           pricing agreement through misrepresentation
    of facts, the Commissioner shall issue a
    notice in writing to the person declaring the
           agreement to be null and void from the date
    the agreement was entered into.
 13. Section 21 of the Income Tax Act is amended in    Amendment of
 subsection (3), by deleting the definition of "gross  section 21 of Cap.
 investment receipts".                                 470
 14. Section 22A of the Income Tax Act is amended      Amendment of
                                                       section 22.A of
 (a) in subsection (I)(c)-                             Cap 470
  (i)by deleting the words "two hundred and forty
    thousand shillings" and substituting therefor
    the words "three hundred and sixty thousand
    shillings":
  (ii) by deleting the words "twenty thousand
   shillings" and substituting therefor the words
   "thirty thousand shillings
 (b) in subsection (2)(c)-
 (i) by deleting the words "two hundred and forty
   thousand shillings" and substituting therefor
   the words "three hundred and sixty thousand
   shillings";
 (ii) by deleting the words "twenty thousand
   shillings" and substituting therefor the words
   "thirty thousand shillings";
 (c) in subsection (3)(c), by deleting the words "two
            hundred and forty thousand shillings" and
 substituting therefor the words "three hundred and
 sixty thousand shillings".
 15. Section 22B of the Income Tax Act is amended in  Amendment of
subsection (2)(c)-                                    section 22B of
                                                      Cap. 470.
     (a) by deleting the words "two hundred and forty
    thousand shillings" and substituting therefor the
 words "three hundred and sixty thousand
 shillings";


562                          The Finance Bill, 2024
       (b) by deleting the words "twenty thousand shillings
                and substituting therefor the words "thirty
                thousand shillings"
       16. Section 27 of the Income Tax Act is amended by       Amendment of
                                                                section 27 of Cap.
inserting the following new subsection immediately after       470.
                                                                470.
subsection (1C)
                 (1D) Where the Commissioner fails to make a
       decision within the period specified in subsection
                (1C), the application shall be deemed allowed.
       17. The Income Tax Act is amended by repealing Repeal of section
section 30A.                                                    30A of Cap. 470
       18. Section 31 of the Income Tax Act is amended by Amendment of
                                                               section 31 of Cap
deleting paragraph (v) of the proviso to subsection (1).       470.
                                                                470.
                                                               Repeal and
       19. The Income Tax Act is amended by repealing           Repeal and
                                                                replacement of
section 34 and replacing it with the following newsection 34 of Cap
                                                               470.
section                                                         470.
Rates of tax      34. (I) The tax chargeable on any
                  income specified in this Act shall be at the
                  rate specified in the Third Schedule.
                             () Subject to subsection (1), the
                  transfer of interest in a person shall be
                  charged in accordance with the Ninth
                 Schedule.
       20. Section 35 of the Income Tax Act is amended—         Amendment of
                                                                section 35 of Cap
                                                                470.
                                                                470.
       (a) in subsection (1), by inserting the following new
                 paragraphs immediately after paragraph (q)-
                 (r) supply of goods to a public entity;
                 (s) making or facilitating payment on a digital
                 marketplace;
       () in subsection (3), by inserting the following
                 paragraphs immediately after paragraph (I)-
                 (m) supply of goods to a public entity;
                (n) making or facilitating payment on a digital
                 marketplace.
                                                                Repeal of
       21. The Income Tax Act is amended by repealing              Repeal of
                                                                   section 72C of
section 72C.                                                    Cap.470.
                                                                   Cap.470.


                            The Finance Bill, 2024                   563
   22. Section 133 of the Income Tax Act is amended by      Amendment of
deleting subsection (6).                                    section 133 of
                                                            Cup. 470.
                                                            Cap. 470.
       23. The First Schedule to the Income Tax Act is     Amendment of
amended                                                    the First
                                                            Schedule to
                                                          Cap. 470
(a) by deleting paragraph 6;                                Cop.470
(b) by deleting paragraph 13;
)in paragraph 51, by inserting the following
    proviso-
    Provided that this exemption shall only apply to
    interest income accruing from bonds, notes or
      other similar securities used to raise funds for
      infrastructure and other social services, listed
before the commencement of this proviso.
d) by deleting paragraph 53 and substituting therefor
    the following new paragraph
    . Payment of pension benefits from a registered
      pension fund, registered provident fund,
      registered individual retirement fund or
        National Social Security Fund, upon
      attainment of the retirement age determined in
      accordance with the rules of the fund:
     Provided that this exemption shall also apply
     where a person-
     )retires prior to attaining the retirement age
           due to ill health; or
      (b) withdraws from the fund after the twenty
           years from the date of registration as a
           member of the fund.
(e) by deleting paragraph 57 that reads as follows—
57. The income or principal sum of a registered
    family trust.
(f)
()         by deleting paragraph 57 that reads as
follows
    57. The income of the National Housing
    Development Fund.


564                 The Finance Bill, 2024
       (g) by deleting paragraph 58 that reads
       58. Any capital gains relating to the transfer of title
       of immovable property to a family trust.
       (h) by deleting paragraph 58 that reads
                     58. Income earned by an individual who is
                registered under the Ajira Digital Program for
        three years beginning the Ist January, 2020:
       Provided that
            (a) the individual shall qualify for the exemption
       upon payment of registration fee of ten
       thousand shillings per annum; and
       (b) the Cabinet Secretary shall, in consultation
                    with the Cabinet Secretary responsible for
       matters relating to information communication
        technology, issue Regulations for the better
        carrying out of this provision.
       (i) by deleting paragraph 59;
                ) in paragraph 60, by deleting the proviso and
       substituting therefor the following new proviso—
       Provided that
       (a) the bond, note or security shall have a maturity
        of at least three years; and
               (b) this exemption shall only apply to interest
                    income accruing from a bond, note or other
                      similar security used to raise funds for
                  infrastructure and any other social service,
        project and asset defined under Green Bonds
                Standards and Guidelines, and any other social
                service listed before the commencement of this
        proviso
        (k) by deleting paragraph 71 and substituting therefor
       the following paragraph
               71. Income earned by a non-resident contractor,
                     sub-contractor, consultant or an employee
                   involved in the implementation of a project
                 financed through a one hundred per cent grant
                     under an agreement between the Government
       and a development partner, to the extent


              The Finance Bill, 2024                                   565
           provided for in the Agreement:
      Provided that any other income not directly
   related to the project earned by that non-resident
       contractor, sub-contractor, consultant or
           employee shall be subject to tax.
  ) by deleting paragraph 72 and substituting therefor
      the following new paragraph—
      72. Gains on transfer of property within a special
           economic zone by a licensed special economic
           zone developer, enterprise or operator.
  24. The Second Schedule to the Income Tax Act is          Amendment of
amended in paragraph I by deleting sub-paragraph(c) and     the Second
                                                            Schedule to
substituting therefor the following new paragraph—          Cap. 470
Capital expenditure incurred    Rate of Investment
                                Allowance
(a) Purchase or acquisition of an 10% per year, in equal
  indefeasible right to use fibre instalments.
 optic cable or spectrum license
 by a
  by       telecommunication
  operator:
 Provided that, in the case of
    the spectrum license purchased
   or acquired before the Ist July,
     2024, the deduction shall be
    restricted to the unamortized
 portion over the remaining
     useful life of the spectrum
 license.
  25. The Third Schedule to the Income Tax Act is          Amendment of the
amended                                                    Third Schedule to
                                                           Cap. 470.
  ain Head A-
  by deleting paragraph 3;
   (ii) by deleting paragraph 4;
  () in Head B
   in paragraph 2, by deleting subparagraph (i):
   (ii)in paragraph 3
           (A) by deleting subparagraph (k) and
           substituting       therefor the following


566          The Finance Bill, 2024
       paragraph
       (k) in respect of gains or profits which are
             chargeable to tax under section 9(1)
             from the business of a ship-owner or
         an air transport operator, where there
         is no reciprocal arrangement or treaty
                 three per cent of the gross amount
        received.
    (B) by inserting the following proviso at the
       end of subparagraph (t)
       Provided that the tax so deducted shall be
       final.
       C) by inserting the following new
       subparagraphs        immediately   after
                            S1
       subparagraph (t)
       (u) in respect of a payment made by a
         public entity for supply of goods to
         the public entity, five per cent;
       (v) in respect of income deemed to have
         accrued in or been derived from a
         digital marketplace, twenty per cent.
       (iii) in paragraph 5-
         (A) in subparagraph (b), by inserting the
              following new item immediately after
       item (iii)
   (iv) in respect of interest arising from a bond,
        note or other similar security that has a
        maturity of at least three years and used
        to raise funds for infrastructure and other
        social services, five per cent.
       (B) in subparagraph (d)-
        (Aa) by deleting item (i):
        (Ab)by deleting the words "fifteen
               years" and substituting therefor the
                  words "twenty years" appearing in
             item (i);
       (C) in subparagraph (f)(i), by deleting the
       expression "the aggregate value of
        which is twenty-four thousand shillings


            The Finance Bill, 2024                     567
                                                       567
  in a month or more
(D) in subparagraph (f)(ii), by deleting the
  words "the aggregate value of which is
  twenty-four thousand shillings in a
  month or more";
(E) by deleting subparagraph (jb);
 by inserting the following new
  subparagraphs       immediately        after
                 F
  subparagraph (m)-
  (n) in respect of a payment made by a
                   public entity for supply of goods to
  the public entity, three per cent;
  (o) in respect of income deemed to have
                      accrued in or been derived from a
  digital marketplace, five per cent.
(iv) by deleting paragraph 12 and substituting therefor
the following new paragraph-
      12. The rate of tax in respect of significant
                economic presence tax charged under
section 12E shall be thirty per cent of the
deemed taxable profit.
(v) by inserting the following new paragraphs
immediately after paragraph 13
14. The rate of tax in respect of capital gains
charged under section 3(2)(f) shall be fifteen
per cent which shall be a final tax:
Provided that where the Nairobi International
Financial Centre Authority certifies that
(a) a firm has invested at least three billion
 shillings in at least one entity incorporated
 or registered in Kenya within a period of
 two years; and
(b) the transfer of the investment is to be
 made after five years of the date of the
 investment,
 the applicable rate shall be five per cent.
15. The rate of tax in respect of motor vehicle tax
charged under section 12H shall be two point


568                    The Finance Bill, 2024
           five per cent of the value of the motor vehicle.
       26. The Eighth Schedule to the Income Tax Act is           Amendment of the
                                                                  Eighth Schedule
amended in Part I                                                 to Cap 470
       (a) in paragraph 1-
       (i) in subparagraph (1), by deleting the definition
           of "company" and substituting therefor the
           following new definition—
           "company" includes a body of persons
           which carries on the activities of a members'
           club or trade association that is deemed to be
           carrying on a business under section 21;
       (b) by deleting paragraph (3);
      (c) in paragraph 6(2)(h)(v), by inserting the words "an
       individual" immediately after the word "where".
       27. The Eleventh Schedule to the Income Tax Act is         Amendment of the
                                                                  Eleventh Schedule
    amended in paragraph 4, by deleting the words "and in the     to Cap. 470.
event of failure to submit a return or late submission of a
    return, the enterprise will be liable to a penalty of two
     thousand shillings per day for each day that the failure
continues".
           PART III-VALUE ADDED TAX
          28. Section 2 of the Value Added Tax Act is amended     Amendment of
                                                                  section 2 of Cap.
          by inserting the following new definition in proper     476.
 alphabetical sequence—
          "tax invoice" includes an electronic tax invoice issued
 in accordance with section 23A of the Tax Procedures Act.        Cap. 469B
               29. Section 8 of the Value Added Tax is amended in Amendment of
                                                                  section 8 of Cap.
subsection (2), by inserting the word "and" at the end of the     476.
 opening sentence.
                 30. Section 12 of the Value Added Tax Act is     Amendment of
                                                                  section 12 of Cap.
 amended by inserting the following new subsection 476
 immediately after subsection (4)-
              (5) The time of supply for exported goods shall
                     be the time when the registered person is in
                   possession of the required export confirmation
       documents.
                     31. Section 17 of the Value Added Tax Act is  Amendment of
                                                                   section 17 of Cap.
amended                                                            476.


                       The Finance Bill, 2024                   569
                                                                569
 (a) in subsection (5)-
  (i)       by deleting paragraph (c):
  (ii) by deleting paragraph (d);
  (iii) by deleting paragraph (e);
 (b) by deleting subsection (7):
 (c) by deleting subsection (8).
 32. Section 31 of the Value Added Tax Act is              Amendment of
amended in the proviso to subsection (I)-                  section 31 of Cap
                                                           476.
                                                           476.
 (a) by deleting paragraph (d);
 (b) by deleting paragraph (e).
 33. Section 34 of the Value Added Tax Act is              Amendment of
amended in subsection (1)-                                 section 34 of Cap
                                                           476.
 (a) in paragraph (a), by deleting the words "five
  million shillings" and substituting therefor the
  words "eight million shillings";
 (b) in paragraph (b), by deleting the words "five
  million shillings" and substituting therefor the
  words "eight million shillings
 34. The First Schedule to the Value Added Tax Act is      Amendient of the
amended-                                                   First Schedule to
                                                       Cap. 476.
 (ain Part I
  (i) in Section A-
            A)in the table—
            (Aa) by           deleting  tariff   number
            "8802.30.00"                     and  the
                                                  the
            corresponding description;
            (Ab) by           deleting       tariff  number
            "8802.60.00"                     and     the
                                                     the
            corresponding description;
            (Ac) by deleting the words "gluten
            bread" appearing at the end of the
            table:
            Ad) by deleting the words "unleavened
            bread" appearing at the end of the
            table;


570                 The Finance Bill, 2024
                    deleting paragraph    49and
       (B)    by                                 and
        (Bby
              substituting therefor the following new
                paragraph-
                49. Aircraft parts of Chapter 88.
        Cby deleting paragraph 54;
       (C)
       (D) in paragraph 57, by inserting the words
       (D)
               "National  Intelligence           Service"
               immediately after the words "Kenya
                Defence Forces
       (E)
        E by deleting paragraph 58;
        (F)     by deleting paragraph 62;
        (G)    by deleting paragraph 63;
        (H)     by deleting paragraph 77;
       (I)      by deleting paragraph 78;
       (J)     by deleting paragraph 79;
            (K) by deleting paragraph 80;
       (K)
       (L)
        (L) by deleting paragraph 81;
       (M) by deleting paragraph 91;
       (M)
        (N) by deleting paragraph 107;
       (N)
       (O)    by deleting paragraph 110;
       (P)     in paragraph 113, by inserting the words
                "until the completion of the projects
                under development" at the end thereof;
        Q by deleting paragraph 114:
       (Q)
       (R)
       (R) in paragraph 144, by inserting the
              following new definition—
                    "original equipment manufacturer"
                means a manufacturer of parts and
                subassemblies who owns the intellectual
              property rights in the parts or
                subassemblies.
       (S) in paragraph 145 by inserting the
       (S)
               following proviso-
               Provided that this paragraph shall not
                apply to a special operating framework
              arrangement entered into by the


               The Finance Bill, 2024             571
    Government on or after the Ist of July,
    2017.
(T) by deleting paragraph 146;
(U) by inserting the following new
(U)
            paragraphs immediately after paragraph
    147
    148. Inputs and raw materials used in
                       the manufacture of mosquito
                    repellent on recommendation by
                 the Cabinet Secretary responsible
               for matters relating to health.
    149.Mosquito repellent.
    150. Tea packaging material.
             151. Micronutrients, foliar feeds and
               bio-stimulants of Chapter 38.
                 152. The supply of motorcycles of
               tariff heading 8711.60.00.
    153. Bioethanol vapour (BEV) Stoves
                          classified under HS Code
                        1 under HS Code
                    7321.12.00 (cooking appliances
               and plate warmers for liquid fuel).
                 154. All inputs and raw materials
               whether produced locally or
               imported,  supplied              to
               manufacturers of agricultural pest
               control    products         upon
                     recommendation by the Cabinet
               Secretary for the time being
               responsible for agriculture.
    155. Agricultural pest control products.
iiby deleting Section B;
() in Part II -
(i)in paragraph 1-
(A) by deleting subparagraph (c);
            by deleting subparagraph (e);
          C)by deleting subparagraph (f);


572                      The Finance Bill. 2024
          (D) by deleting subparagraph (g);
           (E) by deleting subparagraph (i);
           (F) by deleting subparagraph (I);
          (G) by deleting subparagraph (m);
         (ii) by deleting paragraph 2 and substituting
          therefor the following new paragraph—
          2. Insurance and reinsurance premium.
         (iii) by deleting paragraph 17;
         (iv) by deleting paragraph 18;
        (v) by deleting paragraph 21;
         (vi) by deleting paragraph 26;
         (vii) by deleting paragraph 27;
         (viii)  by inserting the following proviso in
         paragraph 34
         Provided that this paragraph shall not apply
                      to a special operating framework
            arrangement entered into by the Government
           on or after the 1 st of July, 2017.
         (ix) by inserting the following new paragraph
           immediately after paragraph 34-
           35. Transfer of a business as a going
                 concern.
       35. The Second Schedule to the Value Added Tax Act Amendment of the
                                                          Second Schedule
is amended in Part A—                                     to Cap. 476.
        (a) by deleting paragraph 13A;
        (b) by deleting paragraph 16;
       c) by deleting paragraph 19;
       (d) by deleting paragraph 21;
        by deleting paragraph 26;
       f)by deleting paragraph 29;
       (g) by deleting paragraph 30;
       (h) by deleting paragraph 31;
        by deleting paragraph 32;


                         The Finance Bill, 2024                  573
 )by deleting paragraph 33:
 (k) by deleting paragraph 35.
               PART IV-EXCISE DUTY
          36. Section 2 of the Excise Duty Act is amended by   Amendmentt of
                                                                            of
inserting the following new subsection immediately after     section 2 of Cap.
                                                             472.
                                                             472.
subsection (2)-
               (3) In this Act, goods shall be classified by
         reference to the tariff codes set out in Annex I to
   the Protocol on the Establishment of the East
                      African Community Customs Union and in
               interpreting that Annex, the general rules of
   interpretation set out in the Annex shall apply.
37. Section 5 of the Excise Duty Act is amended—                Amendment of
                                                             section 5 of Cap.
                                                             472.
(a) in subsection (1), by inserting the following new
   paragraph immediately after paragraph(c)-
   (d) excisable services offered in Kenya by a non-
               resident through a digital platform;
() in subsection (3), by inserting the following new
   paragraph immediately after paragraph (c)-
   (d) under subsection (1)(d), shall be payable by the
               non-resident person offering the service.
38. Section 7 of the Excise Duty Act is amended in           Amendment of
                                                                 of
subsection (2), by inserting the word "spirit" immediately   section 7 of Cap.
                                                             472.
after the word "beer".
39. The Excise Duty Act is amended by repealing Repeal of section
section 14.                                                  14 of Cap. 472.
40. Section 17 of the Excise Duty Act is amended by          Amendment of
      deleting subsection (1) and substituting therefor the  section I7 of Cap.
                                                             472.
following new subsection—
                         (1) Subject to subsection (②), the
  Commissioner shall, within fourteen days of
  receipt of all the required valid documents,
  consider an application made under section 16 and
  grant or refuse to grant a licence to the applicant.
41. Section 36 of the Excise Duty Act is amended in          Amendmentof
                                                                 of
subsection (1A), by deleting the words "twenty-four hours"   section 36 of Cap.
                                                             472.
                                                             472.
and substituting therefor the words "five working days".


574                   The Finance Bill, 2024
       42. The First Schedule to the Excise Duty Act is Amendment of the
amended-                                                First Schedule to
                                                Cap. 472
                                                Cup. 472
       (a) in Part I-
       (i) in the second table of paragraph I—
               A by deleting the description
         "Motorcycles of tariff 87.11 other than
         motorcycle ambulances, locally assembled
           motorcycles and electric motorcycles" and the
                   corresponding rate of excise duty and
       substituting therefor the following new
       description and corresponding rate of excise
       duty
Description                  Rate of Excise Duty
Motorcycles    of        tariff 10% of the value or shs.
87.11.60.00    other  than 12,952.83        per    unit,
motorcycle ambulances and    whichever is higher
locally assembled motorcycles
       (B) in the description of "Imported cartons,
         boxes and cases of corrugated paper or paper
          board and imported folding cartons, boxes
          and case of non-corrugated paper or paper
         board and imported skillets, free-hinge lid
                   packets of tariff heading 4819.10.00,
         4819.20.10 and 4819.20.90" by inserting the
           words "excluding imported cartons, boxes
              and cases, of corrugated paper or
       paperboard, folding cartons, skillets labels of
         paper and paper board, originating from East
          African Community Partner States that meet
             the East African Community Rules of
               Origin" at the end thereof;
       (C) in the description of "Imported cement", by
               inserting the words "excluding clinkers":
       (D)in the description of "Imported eggs of tariff
            heading 04.07", by inserting the words
            "excluding eggs originating from East
          African Community Partner States that meet
             the East African Community Rules of
               Origin" at the end thereof;


                The Finance Bill, 2024            575
                                                  575
   (E) in the description of "Imported onions of
     tariff heading 07.03", by inserting the words
     "excluding onions originating from East
      African Community Partner States that meet
     the East African Community Rules of
     Origin" at the end thereof;
    (F) in the description of "Imported potatoes,
     potato crisps and potato chips of tariff
     heading 07.01 and imported potatoes of
     tariff numbers 0710.10.00, 2004.10.00 and
     2005.20.00", by inserting the words
     "excluding potatoes, potato crisps and potato
    chips originating from East African
    Community Partner States that meet the East
    African Community Rules of Origin" at the
    end thereof:
(G)in the description of "Articles of plastic of
    tariff heading 3923.30.00 and 3923.90.90"
    by deleting the word "imported":
          (H) in the description "Imported sugar
    confectionary of tariff heading 17.04", by
    deleting the corresponding rate of excise
    duty and substituting therefor the rate of
    excise duty "Shs. 257.55 per kg
         (I in the description of "Wines including
    fortified wines, and other alcoholic
    beverages obtained by fermentation of
     fruits". by deleting the corresponding rate of
     excise duty and substituting therefor the rate
    of excise duty "shs. 22.50 per centilitre of
    pure alcohol";
    (I) in the description of "Beer, Cider, Perry,
           Mead, Opaque beer and mixtures of
    fermented beverages with non-alcoholic
         beverages and spirituous beverages of
        alcoholic strength not exceeding 6%", by
    deleting the corresponding rate of excise
       duty and substituting therefor the rate of
    excise duty "shs. 22.50 per centilitre of pure
    alcohol":


576            The Finance Bill, 2024

       (K)in the description of "Spirits of undenatured
        ethyl alcohol; spirits liqueurs and other
        spirituous beverages of alcoholic strength
       exceeding 6%", by deleting the
        corresponding rate of excise duty and
        substituting therefor the rate of excise duty
        "shs. 16 per centilitre of pure alcohol":
       (L) in the description of "Cigarette with filters
          (hinge lid and soft cap)", by deleting the
        corresponding rate of Excise Duty and
        substituting therefor the rate of Excise Duty
        "Shs. 4,100 per mille";
       (M)in the description "Cigarettes without filters
        (plain cigarettes)", by deleting the
        corresponding rate of excise duty and
        substituting therefor the rate of excise duty
        "shs.4,100 per mille";
       (N) in the description of "Products containing
        nicotine or nicotine substitutes intended for
        inhalation without combustion or oral
        application but excluding medicinal products
        approved by the Cabinet Secretary
        responsible for matters relating to health and
        other  manufacturedtobacco               and
                                tobacco
                                                 and
        manufactured tobacco substitutes that have
        been homogenized and reconstituted
        tobacco, tobacco extracts and essences", by
        deleting the corresponding rate of excise
          duty and substituting therefor the rate of
        excise duty "shs. 2,000 per kg";
       (O)in the description of "Liquid nicotine for
        electronic cigarettes", by deleting the
        corresponding rate of excise duty and
        substituting therefor the rate of excise duty
        "shs. 100 per millilitre
       (P) by inserting the following new description
        and corresponding rate of excise duty at the
        end thereof—


                        The Finance Bill, 2024                             577
                                                                           577
Description             Rate of Excise Duty
Coal                    5% of the value or KSh. 27,000 per
                        metric ton whichever is higher
Vegetable oils of tariff codes 25%
1511,1512,1515 and 1517.
            (Q) in the third table of paragraph I of Part I, by deleting the
               words "Imported Emulsion - styrene Acrylic" appearing in
                       the second column and substituting therefor the words
               "Styrene-acrylonitrile (SAN) copolymers":
         (ii) by deleting paragraph 2;
 in Part II
        (i) in paragraph 1, by deleting the words "fifteen percent" and
               substituting therefor the words "twenty percent";
         (ii)  in paragraph 2, by deleting the words "fifteen percent" and
               substituting therefor the words "twenty percent";
         (iii) in paragraph 3, by deleting the words "fifteen percent" and
               substituting therefor the words "twenty percent":
        (iv) in paragraph 4A, by deleting the words "twelve-point five
               percent" and substituting therefor the words "twenty
               percent";
         (v) in paragraph 4B, by deleting the words "twelve-point five
                       percent" and substituting therefor the words "twenty
               percent":
        (vi) in paragraph 4C, by deleting the words "twelve-point five
               percent" and substituting therefor the words "twenty
               percent";
            (vii) in paragraph 4D, by deleting the words "twelve-point five
              percent" and substituting therefor the words "twenty
               percent";
        (viii) in paragraph 8, by inserting the words "the internet, social
               media" immediately after the words "advertisement on".
 43. The Second Schedule to the Excise Duty Act is              Amendment of
amended in Part A-                                              the Second
                                                                Schedule to
                                                                Cap.472.
 (a) in paragraph 11, by inserting the words "National
         Intelligence Service" immediately after the words
         "Kenya Defence Forces";


578                     The Finance Bill, 2024

       (b) in paragraph 16, by inserting the following new
             definition
       "original equipment manufacturer" means
       "originalequipment                     a
          manufacturer of parts and subassemblies who owns the
intellectual property rights in the parts or subassemblies.
             PART V-MISCELLANEOUS FEES AND
                        LEVIES
                  44. The Miscellaneous Fees and Levies Act is   Amendment of
                                                                 section 7 of
amended in section 7                                             Cap. 469C.
       (a) by deleting the words "two point five" appearing in
             subsection (2) and substituting therefor the word
             "three";
      (b) by deleting subsection (7) and substituting therefor
             the following new sub-section—
                   (7) Ten percent of monies in the Fund under
               subsection (6) shall be used for the payment of
                Kenya's contributions to the African Union and
                 any other international organisation to which
                Kenya has a financial obligation, while twenty
                  percent will be used for revenue enforcement
             initiatives or programmes.
                  45. The Miscellaneous Fees and Levies Act is  Insertion of new
                                                                section 7B in
                amended by inserting the following new section  Cap.469C
immediately after section 7A—
Eco levy.             7B. (1) There shall be paid a levy to be
                            known as the eco levy on the goods
                              specified in the Fourth Schedule
                        manufactured in Kenya or imported into
              Kenya.
                         (2) The eco levy shall be paid to the
              Commissioner at the rate specified in the
              Fourth Schedule-
                       (a) in the case of locally manufactured
                             goods, by the manufacturer at the
                        time the goods are removed from
                        the excise stock room; and
                     (b) in the case of imported goods, by
                        the importer at the time of entering
                        the goods into the country.


              The Finance Bill, 2024                     579
                                                         579
              (3) The purpose of the levy shall be to
              ensure that the manufacturers and importers
 of the goods specified in the Fourth
 Schedule pay for the negative environmental
 impacts of the goods.
                        () The Cabinet Secretary may make
Regulations for the better implementation of
 the provisions of this section.
46. The Second Schedule to the Miscellaneous Fees Amendment of the
and Levies Act is amended-                               Second Schedule
                                                         to Cap. 469C.
(a) in Part A-
(i) in paragraph (xxv), by inserting the words
"National Intelligence Service" immediately
after the words "Kenya Defence Forces";
(ii) by inserting the following new paragraph
immediately after paragraph (xxx)-
(xxxi) inputs, raw materials and machinery
              used in the manufacture of mosquito
                       repellent on recommendation by the
                        Cabinet Secretary responsible for
              matters relating to health;
(b) in Part B-
            (i) in paragraph (ix), by inserting the words
              "National Intelligence Service" immediately
after the words "Kenya Defence Forces";
            (ii) by inserting the following new paragraph
immediately after paragraph (xvi)—
(xvii) inputs, raw materials and machinery
              used in the manufacture of mosquito
 repellents on recommendation by the
              Cabinet Secretary responsible for
 matters relating to health.
47. The Miscellaneous Fees and Levies Act is              Amendment of the
amended by deleting the Third Schedule and substituting  Third Schedule to
therefor the following new Schedule—                     Cap.469C.


580                            The Finance Bill, 2024
                THIRD SCHEDULE
                       (s.7A(1).(2))
GOODS SUBJECT TO EXPORT AND INVESTMENT
                PROMOTION LEVY
       I. Articles of leather of Chapter 42, 20% of customs
value.
       2.Imported footwear of Chapter 64, 20% of the
customs value.

Tariff No.    Tariff description Export and investment
                                   promotion levy rate
2207.20.00    Denatured ethyl       3% of the customs value
              alcohol and other
              spirits
2208.40.00    Rum and other         3% of the customs value
               spirits obtained by
               distilling fermented
              sugar
2208.60.00    Vodka                3% of the customs value
2523.10.00     Cement clinker       10% of the customs value
3401.30.00     Organic surface-     3% of the customs value
              active products and
               preparations for
              washing
                the skin.
4804.11.00      Kraft liner         3% of the customs value
4804.29.00    Uncoated kraft        3% of the customs value
                                   3% of the customs value
               paper and
                paperboard, in
               rolls or sheets,
                other than that of
                heading 48.02 or
              heading 48.02 or
                48.03 - Other
               48.03 - Other
0401.20.00     Milk and cream of 3% of the customs value
              Milk and cream of 3% of the customs value
               a fat content by
              a fat content by
               weight, exceeding
               1% but not
              1% but not
              exceeding 6%
              exceeding 6%


                            The Finance Bill, 2024         581
                                                           581
 Tariff No.    Tariff description Export and investment
                                   promotion levy rate
 69.10         Ceramic sinks,      3% of the customs value
               wash basins,
               pedestals, baths,
               bidet, water closet
               pans, flushing
               cistern, urinals and
               similar sanitary
               fixtures
 7207.11.00 Billets                10% of the customs value
 7321.12.00 Cooking stoves for 3% of the customs value
               liquid fuel
 8711.10.90    Motorcycles with 3% of the customs value
               internal
               combustion engine
               not exceeding 50cc
8711.20.10 Motorcycles with 3% of the customs value
               internal
              combustion engine
               exceeding 50cc but
              not exceeding
               250cc
8711.20.90     Motorcycles with 3% of the customs value
              internal
               combustion engine
              exceeding 50cc but
               nit exceeding
              250cc
8711.30.90     Motorcycles with 3% of the customs value
              internal
               combustion engine
              exceeding 250cc
              but not exceeding
             500cc
8711.40.90   Motorcycles with 3% of the customs value
             internal
              combustion engine
              exceeding 500cc
              but not exceeding
             800cc


 582                      The Finance Bill, 2024
  Tariff No. Tariff description Export and investment
                            promotion levy rate
  8711.50.90 Motorcycles with 3% of the customs value
        internal
        combustion engine
        exceeding 800cc
  8711.60.00 Electric     3% of the customs value
        motorcycles
  9403.10.00 Metal furniture of a3% of the customs value
        kind used in offices
 9403.20.00 Other metal     3% of the customs value
        furniture
 9403.30.00 Wooden furniture 3% of the customs value
        for office
 9403.40.00 Wooden furniture 3% of the customs value
        for kitchen
 9403.50.00 Wooden furniture 3% of the customs value
        for bedrooms
 9403.60.00Other wooden   3% of the customs value
        furniture
 9403.70.00 Furniture of  3% of the customs value
        plastics
 9403.82.00 Furniture of    3% of the customs value
        bamboo
  9403.83.00 Furniture of rattan 3% of the customs value
  9403.89.00 Furniture of cane, 3% of the customs value
        osier or similar
        material
 9403.91.00 Parts of furniture, 3% of the customs value
        of wood
9403.99.00 Parts of furniture, 3% of the customs value
        not of wood
9404.10.00 Mattress supports 3% of the customs value
       48. The Miscellaneous Fees and Levies Act is Insertion of new
                                                     Fourth Schedule
amended by inserting the following new Schedule         to Cap. 469C
immediately after the Third Schedule-


                             The Finance Bill, 2024                      583

                     FOURTH SCHEDULE
                            (s.7B(2))
               GOODS SUBJECT TO ECO LEVY
                                               Tariff            Eco Levy
     Description                                                     Levy
                                               number        rate (Shs.)
1. Other office machines (for example.         8472.90.00    98 per unit
L..
     hectograph or stencil duplicating
     machines, addressing machines,
     automatic banknote dispensers, coin-
     sorting machines. coin-counting or
     wrapping       machines.  pencil-
     sharpening machines, perforating or
    stapling machines)-other.
2.  Calculating machines and pocket-          8470.21.00     225 per unit
     size data recording, reproducing and
     displaying machines with calculating
     functions; accounting machines,
     postage-franking machines, ticket-
     issuing machines and similar
     machines, incorporating a calculating
    device:    cash  registers
     incorporating a printing device.
3.     Automatic data processing machines     8471.30.00     225 per unit
     and units thereof; magnetic or optical
       readers. machines for transcribing
       data onto data media in coded form
        and machines for processing such
        data, not elsewhere specified or
       included - Portable automatic data
       processing machines, weighing not
     more than 1Okg, consisting of at least
     a central processing unit, a keyboard
    and a display.
4. Automatic data processing machines         8471.41.00     225 per unit
     and units thereof; magnetic or optical
       readers, machines for transcribing
       data onto data media in coded form
        and machines for processing such
        data, not elsewhere specified or
       included - comprising in the same
     housing at least a central processing
       unit and an input and output unit,
    whether or not combined.
5.     Automatic data processing machines     8471.49.00     225 per unit
     and units thereof: magnetic or optical
       readers, machines for transcribing


584                           The Finance Bill, 2024

    Description                            Tariff      Eco Levy
                                           number      rate (Shs.)
       data onto data media in coded form
     and machines for processing such
        data, not elsewhere specified or
     included - other. presented in the
     form of systems.
6. Automatic data processing machines 8471.50.00 225 per unit
     and units thereof; magnetic or optical
       readers, machines for transcribing
       data onto data media in coded form
     and machines for processing such
     data, not elsewhere specified or
    included - processing units other
      than those of sub-heading 8471.41 or
    8471.49, whether or not containing
       in the same housing one or two of
      the following types of unit: storage
     units, input units, output units.
7.
7. Automatic data processing machines      8471.60.00  225 per unit
     and units thereof; magnetic or optical
       readers, machines for transcribing
    data onto data media in coded form
        and machines for processing such
        data, not elsewhere specified or
       included - input or output units.
    whether or not containing storage
    units in the same housing.
8.     Automatic data processing machines  8471.80.00  225 per unit
     and units thereof; magnetic or optical
       readers, machines for transcribing
       data onto data media in coded form
        and machines for processing such
        data, not elsewhere specified or
      included - other units of automatic
    data processing machines.
9.     Automatic data processing machines  8471.90.00  225 per unit
    and units thereof; magnetic or optical
       readers, machines for transcribing
       data onto data media in coded form
        and machines for processing such
    data, not elsewhere specified or
    included other.
10. Other office machines (for example,8472.90.00 225 per unit
       hectograph or stencil duplicating
    machines, addressing machines.
      automatic banknote dispensers, coin-


                          The Finance Bill, 2024    585
                                                    585

 Description                         Tariff         Eco Levy
                                     number         rate (Shs.)
 sorting machines, coin-counting or
 wrapping       machines, pencil-
 sharpening machines, perforating or
 stapling machines)-other.
I1. arts and accessories (other than 8473.30.00 98 per unit
  covers. carrying cases and the like)
 suitable for use solely or principally
   with machines of headings 84.70 to
     84.72.Parts and accessories of
 automatic data processing machines
 and units thereof - parts and
 accessories of the machines of
 heading 84.71.
12. Telephone   sets,   including    8517.11.00 225 Per Unit
 smartphones and other telephones.
 including telephones for cellular
     networks or for other wireless
 networks; other apparatus for the
  transmission or reception of voice,
 images or other data, including
 apparatus for communication in a
 wired or wireless network (such as a
 local or wide area network), other
 than transmission or reception
 apparatus of heading 84.43, 85.25.
 85.27 or 85.28 - line telephone sets
 with cordless handsets.
13. Telephone   sets.   including    8517.13.00 225 per unit
 smartphones and other telephones.
 including telephones for cellular
 networks or for other wireless
 networks: other apparatus for the
 transmission or reception of voice.
   images or other data, including
 apparatus for communication in a
 wired or wireless network (such as a
 local or wide area network), other
than transmission or reception
 apparatus of heading 84.43, 85.25.
85.27 or 85.28 - smartphones.
14. Telephone   sets.   including    8517.14.00 225 per unit
  smartphones and other telephones.
  including telephones for cellular
    networks or for other wireless
  networks; other apparatus for the
 transmission or reception of voice,


586                     The Finance Bill, 2024

                                     Tariff     Eco Levy
       Description                              Levy
                                     numher     rate (Shs.)
                                     number
 images or other data, including
 apparatus for communication in a
 wired or wireless network (such as a
       local or wide area network), other
 than transmission or reception
apparatus of heading 84.43, 85.25.
 85.27 or 85.28 - Other telephones
 for cellular networks or for other
 wireless networks.
15. Telephone         sets,  including   8517.18.00 225 per unit
 smartphones and other telephones.
 including telephones for cellular
 networks or for other wireless
 networks; other apparatus for the
 transmission or reception of voice.
 images or other data, including
 apparatus for communication in a
 wired or wireless network (such as a
 local or wide area network), other
 than transmission or reception
apparatus of heading 84.43, 85.25.
 85.27 or 85.28 - other.
16. Telephone         sets,  including   8517.61.00 225 per unit
 smartphones and other telephones,
 including telephones for cellular
 networks or for other wireless
 networks; other apparatus for the
 transmission or reception of voice
 images or other data, including
 apparatus for communication in a
wired or wireless network (such as a
 local or wide area network), other
 than transmission or reception
apparatus of heading 84.43, 85.25.
 85.27 or 85.28 - other apparatus for
 transmission or reception of voice,
 images or other data, including
 apparatus for communication in a
 wired or wireless network (such as a
 local or wide area network): base
 stations.
17. Telephone         sets,  including 8517.62.00 225 per unit
                                                225 per unit
smartphones and other telephones.
 including telephones for cellular
 networks or for other wireless
networks; other apparatus for the
 transmission or reception of voice.


                       The Finance Bill, 2024      587
                                                   587
  Description                          Tariff      Eco Levy
                                                   Levy
                                       number      rate (Shs.)
    images or other data, including
  apparatus for communication in a
  wired or wireless network (such as a
   local or wide area network), other
     than transmission or reception
   apparatus of heading 84.43, 85.25.
  85.27 or 85.28 - other apparatus for
  transmission or reception of voice.
    images or other data, including
    apparatus for communication in a
  wired or wireless network (such as a
   local or wide area network): base
  stations: machines for the reception.
     conversion and transmission or
    regeneration of voice, images or
 other data, including switching
 and routing apparatus.
18. Telephone    sets,  including      8517.69.00  225 per unit
   smartphones and other telephones.
   including telephones for cellular
     networks or for other wireless
   networks; other apparatus for the
  transmission or reception of voice,
    images or other data, including
    apparatus for communication in a
  wired or wireless network (such as a
   local or wide area network), other
     than transmission or reception
   apparatus of heading 84.43, 85.25,
  85.27 or 85.28 - other apparatus for
  transmission or reception of voice,
    images or other data, including
apparatus for communication in a
  wired or wireless network (such as a
   local or wide area network): base
stations: other.
19. Microphones and stands therefor;   8518.10.00  98 per unit
loudspeakers, whether or not
      mounted in their enclosures;
    headphones and earphones whether
   or not combined with a microphone.
  and sets consisting of a microphone
     and one or more loudspeakers;
  audio-frequency electric amplifiers;
    electric sound amplifier sets -
microphones and stands therefor


  588                        The Finance Bill, 2024

         Description                     Tariff       Eco Levy
                                          number      rate (Shs.)
  20. Sound recording or reproducing 8519.81.00       98 per unit
  apparatus
  usingmagnetic, optical or
                                       or
         semiconductor media.
  21. Transmission apparatus for radio-   8525.50.00 98 per unit
                                                      98 per unit
  broadcasting or television.
  whether or not incorporating
  reception apparatus or sound
                                    sound
  recording or reproducing apparatus;
      television cameras, digital cameras
  and video camera recorders
  transmission apparatus for radio-
  broadcasting or television.
22. Transmission apparatus for radio-     8525.60.00 98 per unit
  broadcasting or television, whether
  or not incorporating reception
  apparatus or sound recording or
  reproducing apparatus; television
  cameras, digital cameras and video
  camera recorders       transmission
                        -
  apparatus incorporating reception
  apparatus.
23. Transmission apparatus for radio-     8525,81.00 98 per unit
  broadcasting or television, whether
  or not incorporating reception
  apparatus or sound recording or
  reproducing apparatus; television
  cameras, digital cameras and video
  camera recorders — high-speed goods
  as specified in Subheading Note I to
  this Chapter
  24. Transmission apparatus for radio-   8525.82.00  98 per unit
  broadcasting or television, whether
  or not incorporating reception
  apparatus or sound recording or
  reproducing apparatus; television
  cameras, digital cameras and video
  camera recorders           Television
  cameras, digital cameras and video
  camera recorders: Other. radiation-
  hardened or radiation-tolerant goods
  as specified in Subheading Note 2 to
  this Chapter,
  25. Transmission apparatus for radio- 8525.83.00 98 per unit
  broadcasting or television,


                              The Finance Bill, 2024        589
    Description                         Tariff          Eco Levy
                                        number          rate (Shs.)
    whether or not incorporating
    reception apparatus or sound
    recording or reproducing apparatus:
    television cameras.
    digital cameras and video camera
    recorders - television cameras,
          -
       digital cameras and video camera
    recorders: other, night vision goods
   as specified in Subheading Note 3 to
    this Chapter.
26. Transmission apparatus for radio- 8525.89.00 98 per unit
   broadcasting or television,
           whether or not incorporating
  reception apparatus or sound
 recording or reproducing apparatus;
 television cameras,
    digital cameras and video camera
        recorders - television cameras,
    digital cameras and video camera
  recorders: other.
27. Radar apparatus, radio navigational 8526.91.00 98 per unit
 aid apparatus and radio
      remote control apparatus - other.
   radio navigational aid apparatus.
     28. Reception apparatus for radio- 8527.12.00      225 per unit
 broadcasting, whether or not
    combined, in the same housing, with
       sound recording or reproducing
 apparatus or a clock - radio-
         broadcast receivers capable of
   operating without an external source
  of power: pocket-size radio cassette-
  players.
     29. Reception apparatus for radio- 8527.13.00      225 per unit
           broadcasting, whether or not
    combined, in the same housing, with
         sound recording or reproducing
       apparatus or a clock - radio-
       broadcast receivers capable of
    operating without an external source
 of power: other apparatus combined
with sound recording or reproducing
apparatus


590                   The Finance Bill, 2024

Description                           Tariff      Eco Levy
                                      number      rate (Shs.)
30. Reception apparatus for radio-    8527.19.00  225 per unit
broadcasting, whether or not
                       or not
  combined, in the same housing, with
sound recording or reproducing
apparatus or a clock - radio-
broadcast receivers capable of
operating without an external source
of power: other.
   31. Reception apparatus for radio- 8527.21.00  225 Per Unit
broadcasting, whether or not
combined, in the same housing, with
sound recording or reproducing
apparatus or a clock - radio-
                       radio-
broadcast receivers not capable of
operating without an external source
of power. of a kind used in motor
vehicles: combined with sound
recording or reproducing apparatus.
32. Reception apparatus for radio-    8527.29.00  225 per unit
broadcasting, whether or not
                                  not
combined, in the same housing, with
sound recording or reproducing
apparatus or a clock - radio-
                              radio-
broadcast receivers not capable of
operating without an external source
of power, of a kind used in motor
vehicles: other.
  33. Reception apparatus for radio-  8527.91.00 225 per unit
broadcasting, whether or not
combined, in the same housing, with
sound recording or reproducing
apparatus or a clock -        other.
combined with sound recording or
reproducing apparatus.
 34. Reception apparatus for radio-   8527.92.00  225 per unit
broadcasting, whether or not
combined. in the same housing, with
sound recording or reproducing
apparatus or a clock - other: not
combined with sound recording or
reproducing apparatus but combined
with a clock.
 35. Reception apparatus for radio-   8527.99.00  225 per unit
broadcasting, whether or not
combined, in the same housing, with
sound recording or reproducing
apparatus or a clock  other: other.


                                                    591
                         The Finance Bill, 2024     591

                                        Tariff      Eco Levy
  Description                                       Levy
                                        number      rate (Shs.)
36. Monitors   and projectors, not      8528.71.00  1275 per unit
                                    not
  incorporating television reception
  apparatus; reception apparatus for
  television,      whether  or not
                                    not
  incorporating         radio-broadcast
  receivers or sound or video recording
    or reproducing apparatus -reception
  apparatus for television, whether or
  not incorporating radio-broadcast
  receivers or sound or video recording
  or reproducing apparatus: not
                            not
  designed to incorporate a video
  display or screen.
37. Monitors and
                   projectors,not      8528.72.10   1275 per unit
               and
  incorporating television reception
  apparatus; reception apparatus for
  television,      whether       ofnot
                            or
  incorporating        radio-broadcast
  receivers or sound or video recording
  or reproducing apparatus -reception
  apparatus for television, whether or
      not incorporating radio-broadcast
  receivers or sound or video recording
  or reproducing apparatus: other.
  colour;unassembled.
38. Monitors   and projectors, not     8528.73.10   1275 per unit
                                    not
     incorporating television reception
 apparatus; reception apparatus for
  television,      whetherE         not
                            or
  incorporating         radio-broadcast
  receivers or sound or video recording
  or reproducing apparatus -reception
 apparatus for television, whether or
 not incorporating radio-broadcast
 receivers or sound or video recording
 or reproducing apparatus; other.
 monochrome; unassembled.
39. Monitors and projectors, not       8528.73.90   1275 per unit
                                    not
 incorporating television reception
     apparatus; reception apparatus for
 television,       whetheror        not
 incorporating          radio-broadcast
 receivers or sound or video recording
    or reproducing apparatus -reception
  apparatus for television. whether or
 not incorporating radio-broadcast
  receivers or sound or video recording


592                               The Finance Bill, 2024

   Description                              Tariff      Eco Levy
                                            number      rate (Shs.)
        or reproducing apparatus: other,
   monochrome; other.
  40. Thermionic, cold cathode or photo-    8540.11.00  1800 per unit
   cathode valves and tubes (for
   example, vacuum or vapour or gas
   filled valves and tubes, mercury arc
   rectifying valves and tubes, cathode-
   ray tubes, television camera tubes)-
   cathode-ray television picture tubes.
     including video monitor cathode-ray
   tubes: colour.
  41. Thermionic, cold cathode or photo-    8540.12.00  1800 per unit
           cathode valves and tubes (for
        example, vacuum or vapour or gas
    filled valves and tubes, mercury arc
   rectifying valves and tubes, cathode-
     ray tubes, television camera tubes)
   cathode-ray television picture tubes.
     including video monitor cathode-ray
   tubes: monochrome.
42. Thermionic, cold cathode or photo-      8540.20.00  1800 per unit
           cathode valves and tubes (for
        example, vacuum or vapour or gas
    filled valves and tubes, mercury arc
   rectifying valves and tubes, cathode-
    ray tubes, television camera tubes)-
          television camera tubes, image
        converter and other photocathode
  tubes.
   43. Oscilloscopes, spectrum analysers    9030.40.00  98 per unit
 and other instruments and apparatus
    for measuring or checking electrical
         quantities, excluding meters of
          heading 90.28; instruments and
    apparatus for measuring or detecting
 alpha, beta, gamma, X-ray, cosmic
    or other ionising radiations - other
 instruments and apparatus, specially
      designed for telecommunications
   (for example, cross-talk meters, gain
     measuring' instruments, distortion
  factor meters, psophometers).
44. Rubber tyres of Chapter 40                          1000 per unit
45. Diapers of Chapter 96                               150 per kg


                                                                          593
                        The Finance Bill, 2024                            593

 Description                                 Tariff       Eco Levy
                                             number    rate (Shs.)
 46. Batteries or dry cells of Chapter 85               750 per kg
 47. Plastic packing materials of Chapter              150 per kg
 39
   PART VI-TAX PROCEDURES
  49. Section 19 of the Tax Procedures Act is amended                 Amendment of
                                                                      section 19 of Cap
         in subsection (3). by inserting the words "established by    469B
                                                                      469B
 Regulations prescribed under this Act" immediately after
 the words "Tax Agents Committee".
               50. Section 22 of the Tax Procedures Act is amended    Amendmenit of
                 in subsection (3), by inserting the words "on the    section 22 of Cap.
                                                                      469B
                                                                      469B
 recommendation of the Tax Agents Committee established
 by Regulations prescribed under this Act" immediately
             after the words "Commissioner shall" appearing in the
opening sentence.
  51. Section 23A of the Tax Procedures Act is amended                Amendment of
by inserting the following new subsection immediately                 section 23A of
after subsection (2)                                                  Cap. 469B
   (2A) An electronic tax invoice issued under
   subsection (② shall contain the following
   inforimation
  (a) the words "TAX INVOICE";
  (b) the name, address and PIN of the supplier;
  (c) the name, address and PIN if any, of the purchaser;
  (d) the serial number of the tax invoice;
  (e) the date and time which the tax invoice was issued
   and the date and time which the supply was made,
   if it is different from the date the tax invoice was
   issued;
  (f) the description of the supply including quantity of
   the goods or the type of services:
  (g) the details of any discount allowed at the time of
   supply;
  (h) the consideration for the supply:
  (i) the tax rate charged and total tax amount of tax
   charged; and
  )any other prescribed information.


594                     The Finance Bill, 2024
       52. The Tax Procedure Act is amended by inserting             Insertion of new
the following new section immediately after section 37D—             section into
                                                                     Cap.469B
Relief because of             37E (1) This section applies where the
doubt or difficulty in Commissioner determines that
recovery of tax.
                              (a) it may be impossible to recover an
                       unpaid tax;
                            (b) there is undue difficulty or expense
                        in the recovery of an unpaid tax;
                       (c) there is hardship or inequity in
                        relation to the recovery of an
                        unpaid tax; or
                        there is any other reason
                                occasioning inability to recover the
                        unpaid tax.
                                 2) Despite the provision of any tax
                        law, the Commissioner may, with the prior
                          written approval of the Cabinet Secretary,
                         refrain from assessing or recovering an
                     unpaid tax and the liability in relation to the
                           tax shall be deemed to be extinguished or
                        the tax shall be deemed to be abandoned or
                     remitted, as the case may be.
                        (3) In any case referred to the Cabinet
                         Secretary under subsection (1) and where
                          appropriate, the Cabinet Secretary may
                     direct the Commissioner in writing—
                      (a) to take such action as the Cabinet
                       Secretary may deem fit; or
                      (b) to obtain the directions of the court
                       in relation to the case.
                            (4) The Commissioner shall submit a
                        report to the Cabinet Secretary on or before
                          the 30th June and on or before the 31st
                           December of each year containing the
                          details and amounts of taxes abandoned
                     under this section.
                     (5) The Cabinet Secretary shall submit
                     to the National Assembly the report under
                     subsection on or before 30th March of the
                     succeeding year.


                             The Finance Bill, 2024                          595
 53. Section 42 of the Tax Procedures Act is                    Amendment of
 amended                                                        section 42 of Cap
                                                                469B
 (a) by inserting the following new subsection
   immediately after subsection (2)
            (2A) Subject to subsection (7), the notice
   issued under subsection (②) shall be valid for a
   period of one year.
       () in subsection (13), by deleting the words "taxpayer
            who without reasonable cause fails to comply with
              a notice" and substituting therefor the words
                "person who without reasonable cause fails to
   comply with a notice issued under subsection (2)";
 (c) in subsection (14), by deleting paragraph (e).
                  54.Section 42A of the Tax Procedures Act is  Amendment of
amended                                                        section 42A of
 (a) in subsection (1), by deleting the proviso;               Cap.469B.
 (b) by deleting subsection (4C) and substituting
   therefor the following subsection—
            (4C) A person who is required under this
   section to withhold tax, and without reasonable
   cause
   (a) fails to withhold the whole amount of the tax
            which should have been withheld; or
   ) fails to remit the amount of the withheld tax to
            the Commissioner by the fifth working day
            after the deduction was made,
  shall be liable to a penalty of ten per cent of the
  amount not withheld or remitted.
 (c) by deleting subsection (4D)
         55. Section 47 of the Tax Procedures Act is amended  Amendment of
by deleting subsection (1) and substituting therefor the      section 47 of Cap.
following new subsection—                                     469B.
               (1) Where a taxpayer has overpaid a tax under
 any tax law, the taxpayer may apply to the
 Commissioner in the prescribed form to offset the
  overpaid tax against the taxpayer's outstanding tax
  debts and future tax liabilities; or for a refund of
  the overpaid tax—


596                       The Finance Bill, 2024
       (a) in the case of income tax, within five years from
         the date on which the tax was overpaid; or
       (b) in the case of any other tax, within six months
        from the date on which the tax was overpaid.
       56.Section 51 of the Tax Procedures Act is               Amendment of
                                                                section 51 of Cap.
amended                                                         469B
        (a) in subsection (4A). by deleting the words "the
              Commissioner may make an objection decision
         within sixty days after the date on which the notice
         of objection was lodged" and substituting therefor
         the new words "the objection shall be deemed
         disallowed":
        (b) in subsection (11), by deleting the words "sixty
         days" and substituting therefor the words "ninety
         days".
        57. Section 59A of the Tax Procedures Act is                  Amendiment of
                                                                      Ametidment of
                                                                  section 59A of
                                                                  section 59A of
amended-                                                        Cap.469B
                                                                Cap.469B
        (a) by inserting the following new subsection
         immediately after subsection (I)—
            (IA) The Commissioner may, by notice in
         writing. require a person to integrate the electronic
                tax system authorised under section 75 to the
          system referred in subsection (I) for the purposes
              of submission of electronic documents including
          of submission of electronic documents including
          detailed transactional data in a prescribed manner.
          detailed transactional data in a prescribed manner.
                 () by inserting the following new subsections
                 (b) by inserting the following new subsections
          immediately after subsection (④)
          immediately after subsection (4)
                (5 A person who fails to comply with the notice
                                 frred tosed
                                     on
      be liable, on conviction, to a penalty not exceeding two
      be liable, on conviction, to a penalty not exceeding two
    million shillings for every month or part thereof that the
    million shillings for every month or part thereof that the
failure continues.
failure continues.
              (6) A person who fails to comply with the notice
              (6) A person who fails to comply with the notice
referred to in subsection (2) commits an offence and shall
    referred to in subsection (2) commits an offence and shall
      be liable, on conviction, to a penalty not exceeding two
           be liable, on conviction, to a penalty not exceeding two
    million shillings for every month or part thereof that the
     million shillings for every month or part thereof that the
failure continues.
failure continues.                                                    Repeal and
            58. The Tax Procedures Act is amended by repealing        Repeal and
            58. The Tax Procedures Act is amended by repealing        replacement of
    section 77 and replacing it with the following new section        replacement of
          section 77 and replacing it with the following new section  section 77 to Cap
immediately section 77                                                section 77 to Cap
                                                                      469B
immediately section 77                                                469B


                          The Finance Bill, 2024                                597
Computation of time.     77. In computing the period for-
                         (a) submitting or lodging a tax return,
                          application, notice, or other
                          document;
                         (b) the payment of a tax; or
                         (c) taking any other action under a tax
                         law,
                         the period shall not include Saturdays,
            Sundays or public holidays.
 59.Section 85 of the Tax Procedures Act is                         Amendment of
                                                                    section 83 of Cap.
 amended                                                            469B.
  (a) by deleting the marginal note and substituting
       therefor the following new marginal note-
       "Penalties for late submission and failure to submit
       returns.";
  (b) by inserting the following new subsection
       immediately after subsection (1)-
           (lA) An export processing zone enterprise that
       fails to submit a return as required under paragraph
       4 of the Eleventh Schedule to the Income Tax Act             Cap. 470
       shall be liable to a penalty of twenty thousand
       shillings per month for each month or part thereof
       that the failure continues.
      60. The First Schedule to the Tax Procedures Act is           Amendment of the
                                                                    First Schedule to
 amended by inserting the following new paragraph                   Cap. 469B.
 immediately after paragraph 15-
                        (16) Registration of an employee working
                remotely outside Kenya for an employer in Kenya.
            PART VII-MISCELLANEOUS
 61. The Affordable Housing Act is amended be deleting              No.2 of 2024
section 54.
 62.Section 5B of the Industrial Training Act is                    Cap. 237
amended in subsection (②) by inserting the words ",Tax
 Procedures Act (Cap.469B)" immediately before the word
 "and".
         63. Section 51(2) of the Data Protection Act is amended    Amendment of
                                                                    section 52 Cap
by inserting the following new paragraph immediately after          411C.
paragraph (b)-


598           The Finance Bill, 2024
       (ba) disclosure is necessary for the assessment,
              enforcement or collection of any tax or duty
              under a written tax law.
       64. Section 194 of the Public Finance Management Act  Amendment of
is amended                                                   section 194 of
                                                             Cap.412A
       ) in subsection (1) by inserting the following new
         paragraph immediately after paragraph (g)-
         (h) prescribe a framework for implementation of
              accrual accounting in Government; and
              () prescribe a risk management framework.
       () by inserting the following new subsection
         immediately after subsection (5)
              (⑥) Without prejudice to the generality of
        subsection (1) (h), the framework for
        implementation of accrual accounting shall
         provide for a three-year transition period from the
         date of commencement of this Act.
       65. The First Schedule to the Kenya Revenue          Amendment of the
Authority Act is amended in Part II by deleting paragraph   Finst Schedule to
4.                                                          Cap.469


           The Finance Bill, 2024                                     599
                                                                      599
           MEMORANDUM OF OBJECTS AND REASONS
   This Bill has been submitted by the Cabinet Secretary for the
   National Treasury and Economic Planning and formulates proposals
   relating to revenue raising measures including liability to, and collection
  of taxes.
   The Bill amends the Income Tax Act (Cap.470), the Value Added
  Tax Act (Cap.476), the Excise Duty Act (Cap. 472), The Tax Procedures
   Act (Cap. 469B) and the Miscellaneous Fees and Levies Act (Cap.469C).
   The Bill also amends other pieces of legislation relating to fees.
  levies and management of public funds as set out below:
  The Affordable Housing Act (No.4 of 2024)
   The Bill also amends section 54 of the Affordable Housing Act, to
 clean up the provision following the advisory given by the Attorney
 General.
 The Industrial Training Act (Cap. 237)
   The Bill amends the Industrial Training Act to extend the provisions
 of the Tax Procedures Act, regarding collection of the training levy.
 The Data Protection Act (Cap 411C)
   The Bill also seeks to amend section 51 of the Data Protection Act
 (Cap. 411C) to provide for the exemption of the processing of personal
data that relates to the assessment, enforcement or collection of any tax or
duty from the provisions of the Data Protection Act.
The Public Finance Management Act (Cap.412)
                   The Bill amends the Public Finance Management Act to make
provision for implementation of accrual accounting in Government.
The Kenya Revenue Authority Act (Cap.469)
   The Bill further proposes to amend the First Schedule to the Kenya
       Revenue Authority Act to remove the mandate of collecting charges and
fees payable under the Civil Aviation Act from the Kenya Revenue
Authority following the transfer of the same to the Kenya Civil Aviation
Authority.
   Dated the 9th May, 2024
                                                    KURIA KIMANI
                                                         Chairperson,
           Departmental Committee on Finance and National Planning.


600    The Finance Bill, 2024
 Section 2 of Cap.470 it is proposed to amend-
       "digital content monetisation" means offering for payment
entertainment, social, literal, artistic, educational or any other material
      electronically through any medium or channel, in any of the following
 forms
       (a) advertisement on websites, social media platforms or similar
       networks by partnering with brands including endorsements from
       sellers of such brands;
    (b) sponsorship where a brand owner pays a content creator for
       content creation and promotion;
 (c) affiliate marketing where the content creator earns a commission
       whenever the audience of the content creator clicks on the
       product displayed:
       d) subscription services where the audience pays a periodic fee to
       access the content and support the content creator;
       (e) offering for use a logo, brand or catchphrase associated with the
       content creator merchandise sales eBooks, course or software:
   (f) membership programmes for exclusive content including early
       access;
   (g) licensing the content including photographs, music or other
   businesses or individuals for use in the user's own projects; or
       (h) a content creator earns a commission or fees from crowd funding.
       "individual retirement fund" means a fund held in trust by a qualified
 institution for a resident individual for the purpose of receiving and
 investing funds in qualifying assets in order to provide pension benefits
 for such an individual or the surviving dependants of such an individual
 subject to the Income Tax (Retirement Benefit) Rules and "registered
 individual retirement fund" means an individual retirement fund where the
 trust deed for such a fund has been registered with the Commissioner;
       "pension fund" means any fund for the payment of pensions or other
 similar benefits to employees on retirement, or to the dependants of
 employees on the death of such employees and "registered pension fund"
 means one which has been registered with the Commissioner in such
 manner as may be prescribed;
       "provident fund" includes any fund or scheme for the payment of
 lump sums and other similar benefits, to employees when they leave
 employment or to the dependants of employees on the death of those
 employees but does not include any national provident fund or national


                         The Finance Bill, 2024                             601

  social security fund established by the Government and "registered
 provident fund" means one which has been registered with the
  Commissioner in such manner as may be prescribed;
   "wife's employment income" means gains or profits from
     employment arising from a contract of service which is chargeable to tax
     under section 3(2)(a)(ii) and pensions, lump sums and withdrawals from a
    registered fund, public pension scheme or registered individual retirement
    fund which are chargeable to tax under section 3(2)(c), of a woman living
    with her husband, excepting income derived by her as a trustee or manager
       of a settlement created by her husband the income of which is deemed
   under section 25 or 26 to be the income of the settler or income derived by
  her as an employee of -
   (a) a partnership in which her husband is a partner;
   (b) her husband; or
   (c) a company, the voting power of which is held to the extent of
            twelve and one-half per cent or more at any time during the year
               of income by her or by her husband or by both jointly, either
   directly or through nominees;
        "wife's professional income" means the gains or profits of a married
     woman living with her husband derived from the exercise by her (but not
    as a partner of a partnership in which her husband is a partner) of one of
   the professions specified in the Fifth Schedule being also a person who has
  the qualifications specified in that Schedule relevant to that profession;
   wife's professional income rate" means the wife's professional
 income rate specified in paragraph 1 A of Head B of the Third Schedule;
         "wife's self-employment income" means gains or profits arising from
         a business of a married woman living with her husband which are
       chargeable to tax under section 3(2)(a)(i) and any income chargeable
     under section 3(2)(a)(iii) or section 3(2)(b), but does not include any
        income derived from the provision of goods or services by her to a
        business, partnership or a company owned by or the voting power of
   which is held to the extent of twelve and one-half per cent, or more at any
   one time during the year of income by her or her husband either directly or
 through nominee;
                 "wife's self-employment income rate" means the wife's self-
employment income rate specified in paragraph 1A of Head B of the Third
Schedule;
           "related person" means, in the case of two persons where a person
who


602                   The Finance Bill, 2024
              participates directly or indirectly in the management, control or
capital of the business of another person;
            "royalty" means a payment made as a consideration for the use of or
the right to use—
       )any copyright of a literary, artistic or scientific work; or
                (b) any cinematograph film, including film or tape for radio or
        television broadcasting; or
       (c) any patent, trademark, design or model, plan, formula or process;
        or
       (d any industrial, commercial or scientific equipment, or for
        information concerning industrial, commercial or scientific
        equipment or experience, and any gains derived from the sale or
        exchange of any right or property giving rise to that royalty;
Section 3 of Cap 470 it is proposed to amend-
       3. (3) For the purposes of this section—
       (a) "person" does not include a partnership;
           (b) a bonus or interest paid by a designated cooperative society, as
        defined under section 19A, shall be deemed to be a dividend;
              (ba) "digital marketplace" means an online or electronic platform
           which enables users to sell or provide services, goods or
           other property to other users;
       (c) for the purposes of subsection (2)(g) and section 15(5A) —
        (i) "immovable property" means a mining right, an interest in a
                           petroleum agreement, mining information or petroleum
          information;
        (ii) "net gain" in relation to the disposal of an interest in a person,
                   means the consideration for the disposal reduced by the cost
          of the interest; and
            (iii) the terms "consideration", "cost", "disposal", "interest in a
              person", "mining information", "mining right", "person",
               "petroleum agreement", and "petroleum information" have
          the meaning assigned to them in the Ninth Schedule.
Section 4A of Cap 470, it is proposed to amend-
         Income from businesses where foreign exchange loss or gain is
realized


                   The Finance Bill,2024                  603
    (1) A foreign exchange gain or loss realized on or after Ist January,
 1989 in a business carried on in Kenya shall be taken into account as a
trading receipt or deductible expenses in computing the gains and profits
   of that business for the year of income in which that gain or loss was
 realized:
 Provided that-
   (i)no foreign exchange gain or loss shall be taken into account to the
       extent that taking that foreign exchange gain or loss into account
         would duplicate the amounts of gain or loss accrued in any prior
       year of income; and
     (ii) the foreign exchange loss shall be deferred (and not taken into
       account)-
       (a) where a foreign exchange loss is realized by a company whose
              gross interest paid or payable to related persons and third
          parties exceeds thirty per cent of the company's earnings
            before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization in any
          financial year; or
            (b) to the extent of any foreign exchange gain that would be
          realized if all foreign currency assets and liabilities of the
          business were disposed of or satisfied on the last day of the
                year of income and any foreign exchange loss so deferred
                 shall be deemed realized in the next succeeding year of
          income.
       (1A) For the avoidance of doubt accumulated losses shall be taken
 into account in computing the amount of revenue reserves.
  (2) The amount of foreign exchange gain or loss shall be calculated in
 accordance with the difference between (a times rl) and (a times r2)
 where-
       "a" is the amount of foreign currency received, paid or otherwise
 computed with respect to a foreign currency asset or liability in the
 transaction in which the foreign exchange gain or loss is realized; rl
 is the applicable rate of exchange for that foreign currency ("a") at
 the date of the transaction in which the foreign exchange gain or loss
 is realized;
       r2 is the applicable rate of exchange for that foreign currency
 ("a") at the date on which the foreign currency asset or liability was
 obtained or established or on the 30th December, 1988, whichever
 date is the later.


604             The Finance Bill, 2024
       (3) For the purposes of this section, no foreign exchange loss shall be
deemed to be realized where a foreign currency asset or liability is
disposed of or satisfied and within a period of sixty days a substantially
similar foreign currency asset or liability is obtained or established.
       (4) For the purposes of this section
       "control" deleted by Act No. 8 of 2021, s. 4.
         "company" does not include a bank or a financial institution licensed
          under the Banking Act (Cap. 488), or non-deposit taking microfinance
businesses under the Microfinance Act (Cap. 493C), entities licensed
       under the Hire Purchase Act (Cap. 507) and persons exempt under section
16(2)M)(iii);
       "all loans" shall have the meaning assigned in section 16(3);
       "foreign currency asset or liability" means an asset or liability
             denominated in, or the amount of which is otherwise determined by
reference to, a currency other than the Kenya Shilling.
Section 5 of Cap.470 it is proposed to amend-
       5. Income from employment, etc.
       (1) For the purposes of section 3(2)(a)(ii) of this Act, an amount paid
to
       (a) a person who is, or was at the time of the employment or when the
       services were rendered, a resident person in respect of any
       employment or services rendered by him in Kenya or outside
       Kenya; or
                (b) a non-resident person in respect of any employment with or
              services rendered to an employer who is resident in Kenya or the
        permanent establishment in Kenya of an employer who is not so
         resident, shall be deemed to have accrued in or to have been
       derived from Kenya.
       (②) For the purposes of section 3(2)(a)(ii) "gains or profits"
includes-
       (a) any wages, salary, leave pay, sick pay, payment in lieu of leave,
                fees, commission, bonus, gratuity, or subsistence, travelling.
       entertainment or other allowance received in respect of
                employment or services rendered, and any amount so received in
                respect of employment or services rendered in a year of income
        other than the year of income in which it is received shall be
        deemed to be income in respect of that other year of income:


                                                                     605
                  The Finance Bill, 2024                            605
    Provided that—
           (i) where any such amount is received in respect of a year of
          income which expired earlier than four years prior to the year
       of income in which it was received, or prior to the year of
       income in which the employment or services ceased, if
       earlier, it shall be deemed to be income of the year of income
       which expired five years prior to the year of income in which
       it was received, or prior to the year of income in which the
       employment or services ceased as the case may be; and
    (ii) where the Commissioner is satisfied that subsistence,
       travelling, entertainment or other allowance represents solely
       the reimbursement to the recipient of an amount expended by
       him wholly and exclusively in the production of his income
       from the employment or services rendered then the
       calculation of the gains or profits of the recipient shall
       exclude that allowance or expenditure; and
    (iii) notwithstanding the provisions of subparagraph (ii), where
       such amount is received by an employee as payment of
       subsistence, travelling, entertainment or other allowance, in
         respect of a period spent outside his usual place of work while
       on official duties, the first two thousand shillings per day
       expended by him for the duration of that period shall be
       deemed to be reimbursement of the amount so expended and
       shall be excluded in the calculation of his gains or profits;
(b) save as otherwise expressly provided in this section, the value of a
      benefit, advantage, or facility of whatsoever nature the aggregate
    value whereof is not less than thirty six thousand shillings granted
    in respect of employment or services rendered;
       (c) an amount paid by the employer as a contribution to a pension
    fund, or a registered provident fund or scheme:
    Provided that—
    (i) where the contract is for a specified term, any amount
    (i)
        received as compensation on the termination of the contract
               shall be deemed to have accrued evenly over the unexpired
        period of the contract;
    ii) where the contract is for an unspecified term and provides for
               compensation on the termination thereof, the compensation
        shall be deemed to have accrued in the period immediately
        following the termination at a rate equal to the rate per


606                The Finance Bill, 2024
                   annum of the gains or profits from the contract received
         immediately prior to termination;
           (iii) where the contract is for an unspecified term and does not
                   provide for compensation on the termination thereof, any
         compensation paid on the termination of the contract shall be
         deemed to have accrued evenly in the three years
         immediately following such termination;
       (d) any balancing charge under Part II of the Second Schedule;
       (e) the value of premises provided by an employer for occupation by
        his employee for residential purposes;
       )an amount paid by an employer as a premium for an insurance on
        the life of his employee and for the benefit of that employee or
        any of his dependants:
        Provided that this paragraph shall not apply where such an
        amount
        is paid-
        (i) to a registered or unregistered pension scheme, pension fund,
         or individual retirement fund; or
        (ii) for group life policy cover, unless such a cover confers a
         benefit to the employee or any of his dependants.
         (2A)(a) Where an individual is a director or an employee or
         is a relative of a director or an employee and has received a
         loan including a loan from an unregistered pension or
         provident fund by virtue of his position as a director or his
         employment, or the person to whom he is related, he shall be
         deemed to have received a benefit in that year of income
         equal to the greater of—
         the difference between the interest that would have been
         payable on
         the loan received if calculated at the prescribed rate of interest
         and
         the actual interest paid on the loan; and zero:
         Provided that where the term of the loan extends for a period
         beyond the date of termination of employment, the provisions
         of this subsection shall continue to apply for as long as the
         loan remains unpaid.
       (b) For the purposes of this subsection


                  The Finance Bill, 2024            607
                                                    607
  "elfiployee" meanis any personi who is not a beneficial owner of or
able eithier directly or inidirectly or through the medium of other
compalies or by ariy other means to control more than five per cent of the
share capital or voting power of that company;
 "market lending rates" means the average 91-day treasury bill rate of
interest for the previous quarter;
  "preseribed rate of interest" means the following:
  (i) in the year of income commencing on the Ist January, 1990, 6
     per cent;
  (ii) in the year of income eofmencing on the 1st January, 1991, 8
     per cent;
(ii) ini the year of income commencing on the 1st January, 1992, 10
     per cent;
 (iv) in the year of income commencing on the Ist January, 1993, 12
     per cent;
       (vin the year of income eomimencing on the 1st January, 1994, 15
  (v)
     per cent; and
 (vi) in the year of income commencing on or after the Ist January,
     1995, 15% or such interest rate based on the market lending
          rates as the Commissioner may from time to time prescribe, to
     cover a period of not less than six months but not more than
     one year, whichever is the lower.
 "relative of a director or an employee" mearis-
  () his spouse;
  (i)
  (ii) his son, daughter, brother, sister, uncle, aunt, nephiew, niece,
      stepfather, step-mother, step-child, or in the case of an adopted
     child his adopter or adopters; or
iii)the spouse of any such relative as is mentioned in subparagraph
     (ii).
         (2B) Where an employee is provided with a motor vehicle by his
employer, he shall be deemed to have received a benefit in that year of
income equal to the higher of—
(a) such value as the Commissioner may, from time to time,
  determine; and
 (b) the prescribed rate of benefit:
Provided that—


608          The Finance Bill, 2024

        (i) where such vehicle is hired or leased from a third party, the
         employee shall be deemed to have received a benefit in that
         year of income equal to the cost of hiring or leasing; or
        (ii) where an employee has restricted use of such motor vehicle.
         the Commissioner shall, if satisfied of that fact upon proof by
         the employee, determine a lower rate of benefit depending on
         the usage of the motor vehicle.
       (2C) For the purposes of subsection (2B)—
       "prescribed rate of benefit" means the following rates in respect of
each month-
       (a) in the 1996 year of income, 1% of the initial capital expenditure
        on the vehicle by the employer;
       (b) in the 1997 year of income, 1.5% of the initial capital expenditure
        on the vehicle by the employer; and
       (c) in 1998 and subsequent years of income, 2% of the initial
        expenditure on the vehicle by the employer.
       (3) For the purposes of subsection (2)(e), the value of premises,
excluding the value of any furniture or other contents so provided, shall be
deemed to be-
       (a) in the case of a director of a company, other than a whole time
        service director, an amount equal to the higher of fifteen per
        centum of his total income excluding the value of those premises
        and income which is chargeable under section 3(2)(f), the market
        rental value and the rent paid by the employer;
       (b) in the case of a whole time service director, an amount equal to
        the higher of fifteen per centum of the gains or profits from his
        employment, excluding the value of those premises, and income
        which is chargeable under section 3(2)(f), the market rental value
        and the rent paid by the employer;
       (c) in the case of an agricultural employee required by the terms of
        employment to reside on a plantation or farm, an amount equal to
        ten per centum of the gains or profits from his employment:
       Provided that for the purposes of this paragraph—
        (i) "plantation" shall not include a forest or timber plantation; and
        (ii) "agricultural employee" shall not include a director other than
        a whole time service director;


               The Finance Bill, 2024              609
   (d) in the case of any other employee, an amount equal to fifteen per
           centum of the gains or profits from his employment, excluding
 the value of those premises or the rent paid by the employer if
 paid under an agreement made at arm's length with a third party,
 whichever is the higher:
 Provided that
           (i) where the premises are provided under an agreement with a
              third party which is not at arm's length, the value of the
             premises determined under this subsection shall be the fair
           market rental value of the premises in that year, or the rent
 paid by the employer, whichever is the higher; or
             (ii) where the premises are owned by the employer, the fair
 market rental value of the premises in that year.
 Provided that—
          i) where a person occupies premises for part only of a year of
            income, the value ascertained under the foregoing provisions
   shall be reduced by that proportion which is just and
   reasonable having regard to the period of occupation and the
   yearly rate of gains or profits from employment;
         (ii) where the employee pays rent to his employer for premises,
   the value ascertained under the foregoing provisions shall be
   reduced by the amount of rent;
               (iii) where part only of any premises is so provided, the
  Commissioner may reduce the value ascertained under the
   foregoing provisions to the amount which he considers just
   and reasonable;
             (iv) where the gains or profits from a person's employment,
                     excluding the value of the premises provided by the
  employer, exceed six hundred thousand shillings in the year,
  the value of the premises determined under this subsection
   shall be subject to the limit of-
(a) the rent paid by the employer or the fair market rental value of the
 premises in that year where the premises are provided under an
              agreement with a third party which is not at arm's length,
 whichever is the higher; or
 (b) the fair market rental value of the premises in that year where the
 premises are owned by the employer


610                       The Finance Bill, 2024
          (4) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in subsection (2) " gains
or profits" do not include
           (a) the expenditure on passages between Kenya and any place outside
          Kenya borne by employer:
        Provided that this paragraph shall not apply to expenditure other than
expenditure on the provision of passages for the benefit of an employee
recruited or engaged outside Kenya and who is in Kenya solely for the
purpose of serving the employer and is not a citizen of Kenya:
        (aa) expenditure on vacation trips to destinations in Kenya paid by
          the employer on behalf of an employee:
        Provided that—
        (i) this paragraph shall cease to apply on the 1st July, 2015;
        (ii) the period of vacation shall not exceed seven days; and
                  (iii) the term "employee" shall include the immediate family
          members of the employee;
        (b) in the case of a full-time employee or his beneficiaries (which
              expression includes a whole time service director, or a director
           who controls more than five per cent of the share capital or voting
                power of a company) the value of any medical services provided
          by the employer or medical insurance provided by an insurance
               provider approved by the Commissioner of Insurance and paid for
                      by the employer on behalf of a full-time employee or his
          beneficiaries
       Provided that in the case of a director other than a whole time service
        director, the value of the services shall be subject to such limit as the
        Cabinet Secretary may, from time to time, prescribe;
           c) an amount paid by the employer as a contribution to a registered
                      or unregistered pension fund, provident fund, individual
          retirement fund or scheme:
       Provided that this paragraph shall not apply to any contributions paid
       by an employer who is not a person chargeable to tax—
         (i) to an unregistered pension scheme, unregistered provident fund or
          unregistered individual retirement fund; or
         (ii) to a registered pension scheme, a registered provident fund or a
         registered individual retirement fund in excess of the amount
         specified in section 22A or 22B;


                  The Finance Bill, 2024                 611
    (d) educational fees of employee's dependants or relatives disallowed
      under section 16(2(a)(iv) which have been taxed in the hands of
      the employer;
    (e) fringe benefits subject to tax under section 12B;
        (f) the value of meals served to employees in a canteen or cafeteria
     operated or established by the employer or provided by a third
          party who is a registered taxpayer (whether the meals are supplied
      in the premises of the employer or the premises of the third party)
      where the value of the meal does not exceed the sum of forty-
      eight thousand shillings per year per employee subject to such
     conditions as the Commissioner may specify;
    g an amount paid by an employer as a gratuity or similar payment
     in respect of employment or services rendered, which is paid into
      a registered pension scheme:
    Provided that-
    (a) this paragraph shall only apply in respect of amounts not
    exceeding two hundred and forty thousand shillings for each year
     of service;
          ) this paragraph shall not apply to any person who is eligible for
     deductions under section 22A.
     (h) For the purposes of this subsection—
               (i) "beneficiaries" means the full time employee's spouse and
                      not more than four children whose age shall not exceed
           twenty-one years; and
      (ii) "low income employee" deleted by Act No. 16 of 2014, s.
      5(c).
       (5) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, the value of the
     benefit (excluding the value of premises as determined under subsection
        3) and the value of benefit determined under subsection (2B) for the
purposes of this section, shall be the higher of the cost to the employer or
    the fair market value of the benefit:
    Provided that-
       (a) in the case of an employee share ownership plan, the value of the
         benefit shall be the difference between the offer price, per share,
      at the date the option is granted by the employer, and the market
         value, per share on the date when the employee exercises the
    option;


612                    The Finance Bill, 2024
         (b) the Commissioner may, from time to time, prescribe the value
           where the cost or the fair market value of a benefit cannot be
        determined.
       (6) For the purposes of paragraph (a) of the proviso to subsection
(5)-
       (a) the benefits chargeable shall be deemed to have accrued on the
        date the employee exercises the option;
      (b) "offer price" means the price at which an employer's shares are
                 initially offered to an employee under an employee share
        ownership plan;
       (c) "market value", in relation to a share means
          () where the shares are fully listed on any securities exchange
                 operating in Kenya, the mid-market value on the date the
         shares were granted by the employer; or
        (ii) where the shares are not fully listed, the price which the
         shares might reasonably be expected to fetch on sale in the
         open market, which shall be agreed upon with the
         Commissioner before the grant of the options;
             (d) "share option" means the offer made by an employer to an
        employee to purchase a fixed number of shares at a fixed price,
        which may be paid for at the end of the vesting period;
    (e) "vesting period" means a fixed period of time between the date of
             offer by the employer and the date after which the option to
        purchase can be exercised by the employee.
Section 10 of Cap 470 it is proposed to amend
     10. Income from management or professional fees, royalties, interest
and Rents
    (1) For the purposes of this Act, where a resident person or a person
   having a permanent establishment in Kenya makes a payment to any other
person in respect of-
       (a) a management or professional fee or training fee;
       (b) a royalty or natural resource income;
       (c) interest and deemed interest;
       (d) the use of property;


              The Finance Bill, 2024                      613
                                                          613
 (e) an appearance at, or performance in, any place (whether public or
 private) for the purpose of entertaining, instructing, taking part in
 any sporting event or otherwise diverting an audience; or
 () an activity by way of supporting, assisting or arranging an
 appearance or performance referred to in paragraph (e) of this
 section;
 (g) winnings;
 (h) deleted by Act No. 16 of 2014, s. 6(b);
 (i) deleted by Act No. 23 of 2019, s. 6(a);
 () an insurance or reinsurance premium.
 (k) sales promotion, marketing, advertising services, and
 transportation of goods (excluding air and shipping transport
 services;
 the amount thereof shall be deemed to be income which accrued
 in or was derived from Kenya:
 Provided that
 (i) this subsection shall not apply unless the payment is incurred in
  the production of income accrued in or derived from Kenya or
 in connexion with a business carried on or to be carried on, in
  whole or in part, in Kenya;
 (ii) this subsection shall not apply to any such payment made, or
  purported to be made, by the permanent establishment in
  Kenya of a non-resident person to that non-resident person
 except for deductions provided for by agreements under section
 41;
            (iii) for the avoidance of doubt, the expression "non-resident
   person" shall include both head office and other offices of the
   non-resident person.
     (2) A net gain referred to in section 3(2) (g) is deemed to be income
 that accrued in or was derived from Kenya.
 Section 12 E of Cap 470 it is proposed to amend-
 12E. Digital service tax
      (1) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, a tax to be
known as digital service tax shall be payable by a non-resident person
 whose income from the provision of services is derived from or accrues in


614            The Finance Bill, 2024
Kenya through a business carried out over the internet or an electronic
network including through a digital marketplace:
       Provided that this section shall not apply to a non-resident person
with a permanent establishment in Kenya.
       (2) A person subject to digital service tax shall submit a return and
     pay the tax due to the Commissioner on or before the twentieth day of the
          month following the end of the month in which the digital service was
offered.
            (3) Despite subsection (1), digital service tax shall not apply to
income chargeable under section 9(2) or section 35.
Section 15 of Cap 470 it is proposed to amend-
       15. Deductions allowed
        (1) For the purpose of ascertaining the total income of any person for
  a year of income there shall, subject to section 16 of this Act, be deducted
          all expenditure incurred in such year of income which is expenditure
         wholly and exclusively incurred by him in the production of that income,
            and where under section 27 of this Act any income of an accounting
      period ending on some day other than the last day of such year of income
      is, for the purpose of ascertaining total income for any year of income,
        taken to be income for any year of income, then such expenditure incurred
         during such period shall be treated as having been incurred during such
year of income.
       (2) Without prejudice to sub-section (1) of this section, in computing
     for a year of income the gains or profits chargeable to tax under section
3(2)(a) of this Act, the following amounts shall be deducted:
       (a) bad debts incurred in the production of such gains or profits which
        the Commissioner considers to have become bad, and doubtful
                debts so incurred to the extent that they are estimated to the
                   satisfaction of the Commissioner to have become bad, during
        such year of income and the Commissioner may prescribe such
              guidelines as may be appropriate for the purposes of determining
        bad debts under this subparagraph;
       (b) amounts to be deducted under the Second Schedule in respect of
        that year of income;
       (bb) amounts to be deducted under the Ninth Schedule in respect of
        that year of income;


                                                            615
                  The Finance Bill, 2024                    615
(c) any expenditure of a capital nature incurred during that year of
  income by the ownier or occupier of farm land for the prevention
  of soil erosion;
(d) any expenditure of a capital nature incurred in that year of income
   by any person on legal costs and stamp duties in connexion with
  the acquisition of a lease, for a period not in excess of, or
  expressly capable of extension beyond, ninety-nine years, of
           premises used or to be used by him for the purposes of his
   business;
(e) any expenditure, othief than expenditure referred to in paragraph
   (f) of this section, ineurred if connection with any business
   before the date of eomimencement of that business where such
         expenditure would have been deductible under this section if
    incurred after such date, so, however, that the expenditure shall
  be deemed to have been incurred on the date on which such
  business comifieficed:
  (f) in the case of the owner of premilses, any sums expended by him
        during suchi year of income for structural alterations to the
  premises where such expenditure is necessary to maintain the
  existing rent:
         Provided that no deduetien shall be made for the cost of afl
 extensionto, or replacement of, sueh preinises;
        (g) the amount considered by the Commissiofief to be just and
            reasonable as representing the diminution in value of any
 implement, utensil or similar article, not being machinery or plant
        in respect of which a deduction may be made under thie Second
 Schedule, employed in thie prodiietion of gains or profits;
(h) Deleted by Act No. 8 of 2020, s. 5
(i) in the case of gains of profits of the owner of any land from the
sale of, or the grant of the right to fell, standing timber which was
            growing on such land at the time such owner acquired such
 land-
      (i) where such land was acquired for valuable consideration, so
                    much of the consideration as the Commissioner may
   determine to be just and reasonable as representing the cost of
   such standing timber; or
      (ii) where no valuable consideration was given for the land, so
             much of such amount as the Commissioner may determine to
   be just and reasonable as representing the value of such


616                    The Finance Bill, 2024
       standing timber at the time the owner acquired such land, as is
       attributable to such timber sold during such year of income;
       () in the case of gains or profits from the sale of standing timber by
            a person who has purchased the right to fell such timber, so much
       of the price paid for such right as the Commissioner may
       determine to be just and reasonable as attributable to the timber
       sold during such year of income;
       (k) Deleted by Act No. 8 of 1997, s. 32;
       (l) any expenditure of a capital nature incurred in such year of
       income by the owner or tenant of any agricultural land, on
       clearing such land, or on clearing and planting thereon permanent
       or semi-permanent crops;
       (m) Deleted by Act No. 16 of 2014, s. 7(a);
       (n) any expenditure incurred by any person for the purposes of a
       business carried on by him being-
       (i) expenditure of a capital nature on scientific research; or
       (ii) expenditure not of a capital nature on scientific research; or
       (iii) a sum paid to a scientific research association approved for
        the purposes of this paragraph by the Commissioner as being
        an association which has as its object the undertaking of
        scientific research related to the class of business to which
        such business belongs; or
       (iv) a sum paid to any university, college, research institute or
                  other similar institution approved for the purposes of this
        paragraph by such Commissioner for the scientific research
        as is mentioned in subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph;
           (o) any sum contributed in such year of income by an employer to a
       national provident fund or other retirement benefits scheme
       established for employees throughout Kenya by the provisions of
       any written law;
       (p) any expenditure on advertising in connexion with any business to
       the extent that the Commissioner considers just and reasonable;
       and for this purpose "expenditure on advertising" includes any
       expenditure intended to advertise or promote, whether directly or
       indirectly, the sale of the goods or services provided by that
       business;
       () Deleted by Act No. 13 of 1984, s. 19;


  The Finance Bill, 2024                                617
(r) an amount equal to one-third of the total gains and profits from
  employment of an individual who is not a citizen of Kenya and-
  (i) whose employer is a non-resident company or partnership
  trading for profit;
 (ii) who is in Kenya solely for the performance of his duties in
  relation to his employer's regional office, which office has
  been approved for the purposes of this paragraph by the
  Commissioner;
  (iii) who is absent from Kenya for the performance of those
   duties for a period or periods amounting in the aggregate to
   one hundred and twenty days or more in that year of income;
  and
  (iv) whose gains and profits from that employment are not
  deductible in ascertaining the total income chargeable to tax
       under this Act of his employer or of any company or
  partnership which controls, or is controlled by, that employer;
(s) Deleted by Act No. 8 of 2020, s. 5;
(ss) Deleted by Act No. 8 of 2020, s. 5;
(t) expenditure incurred by the lessee in the case of a lease or similar
  transaction as determined in accordance with such rules as may
  be prescribed under this Act;
(u) Deleted by Act No. 8 of 2020, s. 5.
(v) Deleted by Act No. 8 of 2020, s. 5.
(w) any donation in that year of income to a charitable organization
  whose income is exempt from tax under paragraph 10 of the First
  Schedule to this Act, or to any project approved by the Cabinet
  Secretary responsible for matters relating to finance;
 (x) expenditure of a capital nature incurred in that year of income,
  with the prior approval of the Cabinet Secretary, by a person on
  the construction of a public school, hospital, road or any similar
  kind of social infrastructure;
 (y) deleted by Act No. 22 of 2022, s. 8.
 (z expenditure incurred in that year of income by a person
  sponsoring sports, with the prior approval of the Cabinet
  Secretary responsible for sports;
 (aa) expenditure incurred in that year of income on donations to the
  Kenya Red Cross, county governments or any other institution


618                   The Finance Bill, 2024
              responsible for the management of national disasters to alleviate
         the effects of a national disaster declared by the President.
       (ab) deleted by Act No. 2 of 2020, Sch.
             (3) Without prejudice to subsection (1), in ascertaining the total
         income of a person for a year of income the following amounts shall be
deducted:
       (a) the amount of interest paid in respect of that year of income by the
         person upon money borrowed by him and where the
                  Commissioner is satisfied that the money so borrowed has been
                    wholly and exclusively employed by him in the production of
         investment income which is chargeable to tax under this Act:
         Provided that
         (i) the amount of interest which may be deducted under this
           paragraph shall not exceed the investment income chargeable
           to tax for that year of income, and where the amount of that
           interest paid in that year exceeds the investment income of
           that year, the excess shall be carried forward to the next
           succeeding year and deducted only from investrent income
           and, in so far as the interest has not already been so deducted,
          from investment income of the subsequent years of income;
          and
           (ii) for the purposes of this paragraph, "investment income"
                   means dividends and interest but excludes qualifying
          dividends and qualifying interest;
       (b) the amount of interest not exceeding three hundred thousaild
           shillings paid by him in respect of that year of income updh
       money borrowed by him from one of the first five financial
       institutions specified in the Fourth Schedule and applied to the
        purchase or improvement of premises occupied by him during
        that year of income for residential purposes:
        Provided that
        i) if any person occupies any premises for residential purposes
             for part only of a year of income the deduction under this
         paragraph shall be reduced accordingly; and
       (ii) no person may claim a deduction under this paragraph in
         respect of more than one residence;
 (c) deleted by Act No. 14 of 1982, s. 19;


            The Finance Bill, 2024                                         619
         () in the case of a partner, the amount of the excess, if any, of his
               share of any loss incurred by the partnership, calculated after
               deducting the total of any remuneration and interest on capital
                payable to any partner by the partnership and after adding any
 interest on capital payable by any partner to the partnership, over
               the sum of any remuneration and such interest so payable to him
 less any such interest so payable by him;
(e) deleted by Act No. 8 of 1978, s.9;
          (f) the amount of any loss realized in computing, in accordance with
               paragraph 5(2), of the Eighth Schedule, gains chargeable to tax
            under section 3(2)(f); but the amount of any such loss incurred in
              a year of income shall be deducted only from gains under section
           3(2)(f) in that year of income and, in so far as it has not already
 been deducted, from gains in subsequent years of income;
     (g) in the case of a business which is a sole proprietorship, the cost of
                  medical expenses or medical insurance cover incurred for the
        benefit of the proprietor, subject to a limit of one million shillings
 per year.
        (4) Where the ascertainment of the total income of a person results in
        a deficit for a year of income, the amount of that deficit shall be an
allowable deduction in ascertaining the total income of such person for
that year and the succeeding years of income.
(4A) Deleted by Act No. 22 of 2022, s. 8 (b).
             (5) Notwithstanding subsection (4), the Cabinet Secretary may, on
        the recommendation of the Commissioner, extend the period of deduction
beyond ten years where a person applies through the Commissioner for
such extension, giving evidence of inability to extinguish the deficit within
that period.
            (5) (a) A person to whom this subsection applies who has succeeded
to any business, or to a share therein, either as a beneficiary under the will
         or on the intestacy of a deceased person who carried on, solely or in
    partnership, that business shall be entitled to a deduction in the year of
income in which he so succeeds in respect of such part of any deficit in the
total income of the deceased for his last year of income as is attributable to
any losses incurred by the deceased in the business in that year of income
or in earlier years of income.
(b) This subsection applies to a person who is the widow, widower or
                      child, of the deceased person and to a person who was an
             employee or partner of the deceased person in that business; and,


620           The Finance Bill, 2024
         where there are two or more such persons, each such person shall
                     be entitled to a deduction of so much of the whole amount
              deductible as his share in the business under the will or on the
         intestacy bears to the sum of the shares of all such persons.
       (5A) For the purpose of section 3(2)(g), the amount of the net gain to
be included in income chargeable to tax is—
       (a) deleted by Act No. 14 of 2015, s. 10(c)(i);
       (b) the amount computed according to the following formula—
       A x B/C
       Where-
       A is the amount of the net gain;
 B is the value of the interest derived, directly or indirectly, from
         immovable property in Kenya; and
       C is the total value of the interest.
       (6) For the purposes of this section—
       (a) "scientific research" means any activities in the fields of natural or
         applied science for the extension of human knowledge, and when
         applied to any particular business includes
                 (i) any scientific research which may lead to, or facilitate, an
         extension of that business or of businesses in that class;
         (ii) any scientific research of a medical nature which has a special
                 relation to the welfare of workers employed in that business,
         or in businesses of that class;
            () expenditure of a capital nature on scientific research does not
          include any expenditure incurred in the acquisition of rights in, or
         arising out of scientific research but, subject thereto, does include
          all expenditure incurred for the prosecution of, or the provision of
         facilities for the prosecution of, scientific research.
 (7) Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act-
 (a) the gains or profits of a person derived from any one of the seven
          sources of income respectively specified in paragraph (e) of this
         subsection (and in this subsection called "specified sources") shall
        be computed separately from the gains or profits of that person
        derived from any other of the specified sources and separately
        from any other income of that person;


                                             621
                   The Finance Bill, 2024    621
   () where the computation of gains or profits of a person in a year of
   income derived from a specified source results in a loss, that loss
   may only be deducted from gains or profits of that person derived
   from the same specified source in the following year and, in so
   far as the loss has not already been so deducted, in subsequent
   years of income;
         (c) the subparagraphs of paragraph (e) of this section shall be
   construed so as to be mutually exclusive;
(d) gains chargeable to tax under section 3(2)(f) of this Act and losses
    referred to in subsection (3)(f) of this section shall not be deemed
        income or losses derived or resulting from specified sources for
   the purposes of this subsection;
   (e) the specified sources of income are—
    )rights granted to other persons for the use or occupation of
    immovable property;
      (ii) employment (including former employment) of personal
   services for wages, salary, commissions or similar rewards
    (not under an independent contract of service), and a self-
    employed professional vocation;
   (ii) employment the gains or profits from which is wife's
    employment income, profession the gains or profits from
    which is wife's professional income and wife's self-
    employment the gains or profits from which is wife's self-
    employment income;
   (iv) agricultural, pastoral, horticultural, forestry or similar
    activities, not falling within subparagraphs (i) and (ii) of this
    paragraph;
   (ivA) surplus funds withdrawn by or refunded to an employer in
    respect of registered pension or registered provident funds
    which are deemed to be the income of the employer under
    section 8(10):
        (ivB) income of a licensee from one licence area or a contractor
    from one contract area as determined in accordance with the
    Ninth Schedule; and
        (v) other sources of income chargeable to tax under section 3(2)
   (a), not falling within subparagraph (i). (ii), (iii) or (iv) of this
   paragraph.


  622                The Finance Bill, 2024
  Section 18 of Cap 470 which it is proposed to amend-
          18. Ascertainment of gains or profits of business in relation to certain
  nonresident persons
              () Where a non-resident person carries on any business in Kenya
  which consists of manufacturing, growing, mining, or producing, or
  harvesting, whether from the land or from the water, any product or
  produce, and sells outside, or for delivery outside Kenya, such product or
 produce, whether or not the contract of sale is made within or without
  Kenya, or utilizes that product or produce in any business carried on by
 him outside Kenya, then the gains or profit from such business carried on
  in Kenya shall be deemed to be income derived from Kenya and to be
  gains or profits such amount as would have accrued if such product or
  produce had been sold wholesale to the best advantage.
                 ( Where a bank which is a permanent establishment of a non-
 resident person holds outside Kenya any deposits, assets or property
 acquired from its operations in Kenya, the gains or profits aceruing from
 such deposits, assets or other property held outside Kenya shall be deemed
 to be income accrued in or derived from Kenya.
  (3) Where a non-resident person carries on business with a related
 resident person and the course of such business is such that it produces to
 the resident person or through its permanent establishment either no
profits or less than the ordinary profits which might be expected to accrue
fro that busines  there ad been o such relationship, then the ains or
profits of such resident person or through its permanent establishment
from such business shall be deemed to be of such an amount as might have
been expected to accrue if the course of that business had been conducted
by independent persons dealing at arm's length.
  ) For the purpose of ascertaining the gains or profits of any
   business carried on in Kenya no deductions shall be allowed in respect of
any expenditure incurred outside Kenya by a non-resident person other
than expenditure in respect of which the Commissioner determines that
adequate consideration has been given; and, in particular, no deduction
shall be allowed in respect of expenditure—
  (a) on remuneration for services rendered by the non-resident
          directors (other than whole-time service directors) of a non-
          resident company the directors whereof have a controlling interest
         therein, in excess of five per cent of the total income of such
         company, calculated before the deduction of such expenditure. or
         of twenty-five thousand shillings, whichever is the greater, so,
         however, that in no case shall a deduction in excess of one
         hundred and fifty thousand shillings shall be allowed;


                                                                    623.
     The Finance Bill. 2024                                         623
   (b) on executive and general administrative expenses expect to the
     extent that the Commissioner may determine that expenditure to
     be just and reasonable.
   5) When a non-resident person carries on a business in Kenya
through a permanent establishment in Kenya the gains or profits of the
permanent establishment shall be ascertained without any deduction in
respect of interest, royalties or management or professional fees paid or
purported to be paid by the permanent establishment to the non-resident
person and by disregarding any foreign exchange loss or gain with respect
to net assets or liabilities purportedly established between the permanent
establishment in Kenya and the non-resident person.
    Provided that for the avoidance of doubt, the expression "non-
   resident person" shall include both the head office and other offices
    of the non-resident person.
   (6) For the purposes of subsection (3), a person is related to another
if-
    (a) either person participates directly or indirectly in the management,
     control or capital of the business of the other;
    (b) a third person participates directly or indirectly in the
     management, control or capital of the business of both; or
    (c) an individual, who participates in the management, control or
     capital of the business of one, is associated by marriage,
     consanguinity or affinity to an individual who participates in the
     management, control or capital of the business of the other.
    (7) Deleted by Act No. 16 of 2014, s. 9(d).
    (8) The Cabinet Secretary may, by rules published in the Gazette
    (a) issue guidelines for the determination of the arm's length value of
     a transaction for purposes of this section; or
    (b) specify such requirements as he may consider necessary for the
     better carrying out of the provisions of this section.
Section 21 of Cap 470 it is proposed to amend—
    21. Members' clubs and trade associations
    (1) A body of persons which carries on a members' club shall be
deemed to be carrying on a business and the gross receipts on revenue
account (including entrance fees and subscriptions) shall be deemed to be
income from a business: Provided that where not less than three-quarters
of such gross receipts, other than gross investment receipts, are received


624                       The Finance Bill, 2024
  from the members of such club, such body of persons shall not be deemed
  to be carrying on a business and no part of such gross receipts, other than
  gross investment receipts, shall be income.
       (2) A trade association may elect, by notice in writing to the
 Commissioner, in respect of any year of income to be deemed to carry on
 a business charged to tax, whereupon its gross receipts on revenue account
 from transactions with its members (including entrance fees and annual
        subscriptions) and with other persons shall be deemed to be income from
business for that and succeeding years of income.
       (3) In this section
       member" means
                (a) in relation to a members' club, a person who, while he is a
       member, is entitled to an interest in all the assets of such club in
       the event of its liquidation:
       (b) in relation to a trade association, a person who is entitled to vote
       at a general meeting of such trade association;
       "members' club" means a club or similar institution all the assets of
which are owned by or held in trust for the members thereof;
       "gross investment receipts" means gross receipts in respect of
interest, dividends, royalties, rents, other payments for rights granted for
use or occupation of property, or gains of a kind referred to in paragraph
 (f) of subsection (2) of section 3.
  Section 21 of cap 470 it is proposed to amend-
       21. Members' clubs and trade associations
  (1) A body of persons which carries on a members' club shall be
deemed to be carrying on a business and the gross receipts on revenue
      account (including entrance fees and subseriptions) shall be deemed to be
income from a business: Provided that where not less than three-quarters
of such gross receipts, other than gross investment receipts, are received
        from the members of such club, such body of persons shall not be deemed
to be carrying on a business and no part of such gross receipts, other than
gross investment receipts, shall be income.
  (2) A trade association may elect, by notice in writing to the
Commissioner, in respect of any year of income to be deemed to carry on
a business charged to tax, whereupon its gross receipts on revenue account
from transactions with its members (including entrance fees and annual
subscriptions) and with other persons shall be deemed to be income from
business for that and succeeding years of income.


                            The Finance Bill, 2024                      625
         (3) In this section—
           "member" means-
 (a) in relation to a members' club, a person who, while he is a
         member, is entitled to an interest in all the assets of such club in
         the event of its liquidation;
         (b) in relation to a trade association, a person who is entitled to vote
         at a general meeting of such trade association;
          "members' club" means a club or similar institution all the assets of
which are owned by or held in trust for the members thereof;
              "gross investment receipts" means gross receipts in respect of
interest,
          dividends, royalties, rents, other payments for rights granted for use
or occupation of property, or gains of a kind referred to in paragraph (f) of
subsection (2) of section 3.
 Section 22 of Cap 470 it is proposed to amend-
 22. Purchased annuities other than retirement annuities, etc.
 (1) Notwithstanding section 3(2)(c) of this Act, where any payment
 of an annuity to which this section applies is made, that portion of the
payment which as represents the capital element thereof, as ascertained
 under subsection (2) of this section, shall not be deemed to be income.
 (2) For the purpose of this section—
 (a) an annuity includes any amount payable on a periodic basis,
         whether payable at intervals longer or shorter than a year;
 (b) the portion of each payment of an annuity to which this section
         applies which represents the capital element thereof shall be that
         proportion of each such payment which the consideration or
         purchase price for the contract bears to the total payments—
         (i) to be made under the contract, in the case of a contract for a
         term of years certain; or
         (ii) expected at the date of the contract to be made under the
         contract, in the case of a contract under which the
         continuation of such payments depends in whole or in part
         upon the survival of an individual;
 (c) where the continuation of such payments depends in whole or in
         part upon the survival of an individual—


626                   The Finance Bill, 2024
       (i) if any table of mortality has been used as the basis for
                    determining the consideration or purchase price for the
       contract, that table shall be used in computing the payments
                 expected to be made under the contract, calculations being
       based upon complete expectation of life;
       (ii) if no table of mortality has been used as the basis for
                    determining the consideration or purchase price for the
       contract, such table of mortality as the Commissionier
       considers appropriate to the case shall be used in computing
       the payments expected to be made under the contract,
            calculations being based on complete expectation of life;
       (ii) the age of that individual at the date of the contract shall be
              determined by subtracting the calendar year of his birth from
       the calendar year in which that date falls;
        (d) where the continuation of payments depends upon the survival of
            an individual and where, in the event of the death of such
       individual before such payments aggregate a stated sum, the
        contract provides that the unpaid balance of the stated sum shall
        be paid either in a lump sum or by instalments, then the contract
       shall be deemed for the purpose of determining the expected term
             thereof to provide for the continuance of such payments
            thereunder for a minimum term certain equal to the nearest
       complete number of years required to complete the payment of
       the stated sum;
       (e) where such payments commence on the expiry of a term of years
       or on the death of any individual, then the consideration or
       purchase price for the contract shall be taken to be—
       (i)the lump sum, if any, which the individual entitled to those
        payments is entitled to receive in lieu thereof; or
       (ii) if there is no lump sum, the sum ascertainable from the
        contract as the present value of the annuity at the date those
        payments commence; or
       (iii) if there is no such sum, the present value of those payments
        computed as at the date the payments commence on the basis
       of a rate of interest of four per cent per annum and, where
        the payments depend upon the survival of an individual, the
        probabilities of survival of that individual shall be computed
        according to the table of mortality referred to in paragraph
        (c).


                   The Finance Bill, 2024                              627
           3) This section shall apply to annuities, whenever purchased or
commencing, payable under a contract but shall not apply—
    (a) to any annuity payable under a registered annuity contract or a
     registered trust scheme; or
            (b) to any annuity purchased under any direction in a will, or
     purchased to provide for an annuity payable under a will or
          settlement out of income of property disposed of by such will or
     settlement; or
    (c) to any annuity purchased under any pension scheme or pension
     fund; or
          (d) to any annuity purchased by any person in recognition of the
     services or past services of another person.
Section 22B of Cap 470 it is proposed to amend-
    22B. Deductions in respect of registered individual retirement funds
    (1) An individual who is not a member of a registered fund or a
public pension scheme at any time in a year of income commencing on or
     after the 1st January, 1994 shall be eligible to contribute to a registered
       individual retirement fund up to the amount deductible under subsection
(2).
       ) Notwithstanding the provisions of section 16 (2) (d) and (e), the
deduction in respect of contributions of an individual to a registered
individual retirement fund in a year shall be limited to the lesser of-
         (a) the sum of the contributions made by the individual or by the
     employer of the individual on his behalf on or before the 3 Ist of
     December of the year, or
    (b) thirty per cent of pensionable income of the individual in that
     year; or
    (c) two hundred and forty thousand shillings (or, where the
                 contributions are made on behalf of the individual by his
     employer in respect of a part year of service of the individual,
            twenty thousand shillings per month of service) reduced by the
               amount of the contributions made by the individual or by an
               employer on behalf of the individual to the National Social
     Security Fund in that year.
      (3) All funds maintained by an individual in a registered individual
retirement fund shall be held in one account with a qualified institution.
Section 27 of Cap.470 it is proposed to amend-
    27. Accounting periods not coinciding with year of income, etc.


628            The Finance Bill, 2024

       (1) Where any person usually makes up the accounts of his business
 for a period of twelve months ending on any day other than 31st
     December, then, for the purpose of ascertaining his total income for any
 year of income, the income of any such accounting period ending on such
 other date shall, subject to such adjustment as the Commissioner may
 consider appropriate, be taken to be income of the year of income in which
 the accounting period ends-
       (a) in the case of a person other than an individual, as regards all
       income charged under section 3 of this Act; and
        (b) in the case of an individual, as regards all income charged under
       that section other than gains or profits from any employment or
       services rendered.
       (I A) A person carrying on an incorporated business may subject to
 the prior written approval of the Commissioner alter the date to which the
 accounts of the business are made up.
       (1B) A person seeking the approval of the Commissioner under
subsection
          (1A) shall apply in writing to the Commissioner at least six months
 before the date to which the accounts are intended to be made up.
       (1C) The Commissioner shall within six months from the date of
 receipt of the application communicate his decision in writing to the
 applicant.
               (2) Where a person makes up the accounts of his business for a
 period greater or less than twelve months, the Commissioner may, subject
to such adjustments as he may consider appropriate, including the
 assessment for a year of income which, but for any alteration in the date to
 which the accounts of the business are made up, would have been assessed
 for that year of income, treat the income of that accounting period as
 income of the year of income in which the accounting period ends, and tax
 shall be charged accordingly.
       (3) The accounting period of a person carrying on any unincorporated
 business shall be the period of twelve months ending on 3 1st December in
 each year; and
       (4) Any person to whom subsection (3) applies shall not later than
31st December, 1998 change the accounting date to comply with the
 provisions of that subsection.
 Section 30A of Cap 470 which it is proposed to amend-
       30A. Affordable housing relief


                                                                629
                    The Finance Bill, 2024                      629
(1) A resident individual who satisfies the Commissioner that in a
year of income that the person-
(a) is eligible to make an application under an affordable housing
  scheme;
    (b) has applied and is awaiting the allocation of a house under an
  affordable housing scheme; and
       (c) is saving for a purchase under an affordable housing scheme
     approved by the Cabinet Secretary in charge of housing, shall for
      that year of income be entitled to a personal relief in this Act
  referred to as the affordable housing relief.
(2) A person who has been allocated a house under the affordable
housing scheme and has been subject to an affordable housing relief under
subsection (1) shall not be re-eligible for a subsequent relief.
Section 31 of Cap 470 it is proposed to amend-
31. Insurance relief
 (1) A resident individual who proves that in a year of income
 (a) the individual has paid a premium for an insurance made by the
   individual on the individual's life or the life of the individual's
          spouse or child and that the insurance secures a capital sum
  whether or not in conjunction with another benefit, and that the
   insurance is made with an insurance company lawfully carrying
     on in Kenya the business of life insurance, and that sums payable
       under the insurance are payable in Kenya in the lawful currency
    of Kenya; or
 (b) his employer has paid a premium for that insurance on the life,
    and for the benefit, of that individual which is charged with tax
    under this Act on that individual; or
(c) he, as well as his employer, has paid a premium for the insurance
  referred to in paragraph (b), shall, for that year of income, be
    entitled to a personal relief in this Act referred to as the insurance
    relief:
 Provided that-
 () no insurance relief shall be granted in respect of that part of a
    premium for an insurance as secures a benefit which may, at the
          option of the assured, be withdrawn at any time prior to the
    determination of the insurance, and in that case the proportion of
   premiums otherwise eligible for relief, if any, shall be the amount
    that the Commissioner may determine to be just and reasonable;


 630                      The Finance Bill, 2024
         (ii) no relief shall be granted in respect of a premium for an insurance
            unless the person claiming the relief furnishes evidence as to the
            nature and conditions of the insurance and such other particulars
            as may be required by the Commissioner;
         (ii) an education policy with a maturity period of at least ten years
            shall qualify for relief; and
         (iv) the provisions of this section shall apply only to life or education
               policies whose term commences on or after Ist January, 2003;
            (v) a health policy whose term commences on or after Ist January,
           2007 or a contribution made to the National Hospital Insurance
           Fund, shall qualify for relief;
         (vi) where a policy is surrendered before its maturity, all the relief
           granted to the policyholder shall be recovered from the surrender
           value of the policy and remitted to the Commissioner by the
           insurer.
        (②) In this section "child", means any child of the resident individual
and includes a step-child, an adopted child and an illegitimate child who
was under the age of eighteen years on the date the premium was paid.
Section 34 of Cap 470 it is proposed to amend-
        S 34. Rates of tax
        (1) Subject to this section—
        (a) tax upon the total income of an individual, other than that part of
                   the total income comprising wife's employment income fringe
          benefits and the qualifying interest, shall be charged for a year of
          income at the individual rates for that year of income;
        (b) tax upon that part of the total income which consists of wife's
          employment income, wife's professional income and wife's
          selfemployment income other than income arising from fringe
          benefits shall be charged for a year of income at the wife's
          employment income rate, wife's professional income rate and
          wife's self-employment income rate, as the case may be, for that
          year of income;
              (c) tax upon that part of the total income of an individual that
          comprises the qualifying interest shall be charged for a year of
          income at the qualifying interest rate of tax for that year of
          income;


               The Finance Bill, 2024                         631
 (d) tax upon that part of the total income of a person that comprises
  the qualifying dividends shall be charged for a year of income at
  the qualifying dividend rate of tax for that year of income;
(e) tax upon the total income of a person other than an individual
  shall be charged at the corporation rate for that year of income;
   (f) tax upon that part of total income that comprises dividends other
  than qualifying dividends shall be charged in a year of income at
  the resident withholding rate in respect of a dividend specified in
  the Third Schedule;
 (g) tax upon the total fringe benefits provided by an employer shall
  be charged at the resident corporation rate for that year of
  income;
 (h) tax upon gross receipts of a person chargeable to tax under section
  12C shall be charged at the resident rate for that year of income;
(i) deleted by Act No. 14 of 2015, s. 11;
        (i) tax upon the capital gains of a person charged under section
  3(2)(f) shall be charged at the rate of fifteen percent and shall not
  be subject to further taxation:
            Provided that in the case of a firm certified by the Nairobi
 International Financial Centre Authority that—
 (a) invests five billion shillings in Kenya; and
       (b) the transfer of such investment is made after five years, the
  applicable rate shall be the rate that was prevailing at the time that
  the investment was made.
  (k) tax upon gross rental receipts of a person chargeable to tax
                  under section 6A shall be charged at the resident rate
  specified under the Third Schedule for that year of income;
  (l) the transfer of interest in a person shall be charged as per
  provisions of the Ninth Schedule;
  (m) winnings;
  (n) tax upon the gross turnover of a person whose income is
             chargeable to tax under section 12D shall be charged at the
  rate specified in the Third Schedule;
  (o) tax upon the gross transaction value of seryices chargeable to
         tax under section 12E shall be charged at the rate specified in
  the Third Schedule.


632                   The Finance Bill, 2024
       (1A) Deleted by Act No. 16 of 2014, s. 10(b).
       (1B) Deleted by Act No. 16 of 2014, s. 10(b).
       (2) Tax upon the income of a non-resident person not having
permanent establishment in Kenya which consists of-
       (a) a management or professional fee;
       (b) a royalty or natural resource income:
       (c) a rent, premium or similar consideration for the use or occupation
       of property;
       (d) a dividend;
       (e) interest;
       (f) a pension or retirement annuity;
       (g) any payment in respect of any appearance at, or performance in,
        any place (whether public or private) for the purpose of
        entertaining, instructing, taking part in any sporting event or
        otherwise diverting an audience; or
       (h) any payment in respect of an activity by way of supporting.
       assisting or arranging an appearance or performance referred to in
       paragraph (g) of this subsection;
       (i) winnings;
       (j) a payment in respect of gains or profits from the business of
       transmitting messages which is chargeable to tax under section
       9(2);
       (k) deleted by Act No. 14 of 2015, s. 1 1(b)(i);
       (n) deleted by Act No. 23 of 2019, s. 10;
       (o insurance or reinsurance premium, except insurance or
       reinsurance premium paid in respect of aviation insurance;
       (p sales promotion, marketing, advertising services, and
       transportationof goods (excluding air and shipping transport
       services; or
       (q) gains from financial derivatives.
       shall be charged at the appropriate non-resident rate in force at
       the date of payment of such income and shall not be charged to
       tax under subsection (1).
       (4) In this section "person" does not include a partnership
Section 35 of Cap 470 which it is proposed to amend-
       35. Deduction of tax from certain income


                  The Finance Bill. 2024                       633
(1) Every person shall, upon payment of any amount to any non-
resident person not having a permanent establishment in Kenya in respect
of-
   (a) a management or professional fee or training fee except—
             (i) a commission paid to a non-resident agent in respect of
                   flowers, fruits or vegetables exported from Kenya and
                auctioned in any market outside Kenya and audit fees for
               analysis of maximum residue limits paid to a non-resident
    laboratory or auditor; or
   (ii) a commission paid by a resident air transport operator to a
         non-resident agent in order to secure tickets for international
    travel;
   (b) a royalty or natural resource income;
   (c) a rent, premium or similar consideration for the use or occupation
   of property, except aircraft or aircraft engines, locomotives or
   rolling stock:
   Provided that
         (i) where the bond, loan, claim, obligation or other evidence of
              indebtedness is acquired by a person exempt under the First
              Schedule or a financial institution specified in the Fourth
   Schedule from a non-resident person, such an exempt person or
   financial institution shall deduct tax from the difference between
   the acquisition price and the original issue price; and
        (ii) where a non-resident person disposes of a bond, loan, claim,
             obligation or other evidence of indebtedness acquired from a
   person exempt under the First Schedule or a financial institution
   specified in the Fourth Schedule, tax shall be deducted upon final
   redemption from the difference between the final redemption
       price and the acquisition price, if the exempt person or financial
   institution certifies the acquisition price to the satisfaction of the
   Commissioner;
   (d) a dividend;
   (e) interest and deemed interest;
   (f) a pension or retirement annuity:
   (g) any appearance at, or performance in, a place (whether public or
    private) for the purpose of entertaining, instructing, taking part in
    any sporting event or otherwise diverting an audience;


 634                 The Finance Bill, 2024
        (h) any activity by way of supporting, assisting or arranging any
        appearance or performance referred to in paragraph (g) of this
        subsection.
        (i) winnings;
        () deleted by Act No. 38 of 2016, s. 9(a);
        (k) deleted by Act No. 16 of 2014, s. 11:
        (1) gains or profits from the business of transmitting messages which
        is chargeable to tax under section 9 (2);
        (m) deleted by Act No. 23 of 2019, s. 12(i);
        (n) insurance or reinsurance premium, except insurance or
        reinsurance premium paid in respect of aircraft;
        (o) sales promotion, marketing, advertising services, and
            transportation of goods (excluding air and shipping transport
        services):
        (p) gains from financial derivatives.
                  which is chargeable to tax, deduct therefrom tax at the
        appropriate non-resident withholding tax rate:
 (1A) Subsection (1) shall not apply to payments made by filming
 agents and filming producers approved by the Kenya Film Commission to
  nd mebe pprovor purpo o paragp  nd .
 actors and crew members approved for purposes of paragraphs (g) and (h).
 (2) Deleted by Act No. 8 of 1978, s. 9(l)(ii).
  Subject to subsection (3A), a person shall, upon payment of an
mnt t  penidenavi permannt stabien n Ken
amount to a person resident or having a permanent establishment in Kenya
in respect of
 (a) a dividend:

                                           h thninte aid t  nal nstuo ped
                  in the Fourth Schedule which is resident or which has a
        permanent establishment in Kenya, including interest arising from
        a discount upon final satisfaction or redemption of a debt, bond.
                loan, claim, obligation or other evidence of indebtedness
        measud s te ial isse sontohr than ntet
          measured as the original issue discount, other than interest or
          discounts paid to a person exempt under the First Schedule or a
        financial institution specified in the Fourth Schedule:
 Provided that-
 i)where the bond, loan, claim, obligation or other evidence of
        indebtedness is acquired by a person exempt under the First


                    The Finance Bill, 2024               635
                                                         635
     Schedule or a financial institution specified in the Fourth
  Schedule from the resident person, such an exempt person or
  financial institution shall deduct tax from the difference between
  the acquisition price and the original issue price; and
(ii) where the resident person disposes of a bond, loan, claim.
     obligation or other evidence of indebtedness acquired from a
  person exempt under the First Schedule or a financial institution
  specified in the Fourth Schedule, tax shall be deducted upon final
 redemption from the difference between the final redemption
  price and the acquisition price, if the exempt person or financial
  institution certifies the acquisition price to the satisfaction of the
  Commissioner:
       () an annuity payment excluding that portion of the payment which
  represents the capital element;
(d) a commission or fee paid or credited by an insurance company to
     any person for the provision, whether directly or indirectly, of an
  insurance cover to any person or group of persons (except a
 commission or fee paid or credited to another insurance
 company);
(e) a pension or a lump sum commuted or withdrawn from a
 registered pension fund or a lump sum out of a registered
 provident fund in excess of the tax exempt amounts specified in
 section 8(4) and (5), or any amount paid out of a registered
 individual retirement fund, or a benefit paid out of the National
 Social Security Fund in excess of the tax exempt amount
  specified in section 8(5);
     (ee) surplus funds withdrawn from or paid out of registered pension
 or provident funds;
       (f) management or professional fee or training fee, the aggregate
           value of which is twenty-four thousand shillings or more in a
 month:
       Provided that for the purposes of this paragraph, contractual fee
within the meaning of "management or professional fee" shall mean
payment for work done in respect of building, civil-or engincering
works;
(g) a royalty or natural resource income;
(h) winnings, or
(i) deleted by Act No. 38 of 2016, s. 9 (b)(ii);


636                The Finance Bill, 2024
       (i) rent, premium or similar consideration for the use or occupation of
              immovable property, which is chargeable to tax, deduct therefrom
       tax at the appropriate resident withholding tax.
       (3A) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (3), only a person
      appointed for that purpose by the Commissioner, in writing, shall deduct
     tax under paragraph (j) of that subsection. (3B) Deleted by Act No. I6 of
2014, s. I I (c). (3C) Deleted by Act No. 9 of 2007, s. 23. which is income
exempt from tax under this Act, or to which an order made under this Act.
or to which an order made under subsection (7) or (8) applies.
            (5) Where a person deducts tax under this section he shall, on or
before the twentieth day of the month following the month in which the
deduction was made—
       (a) remit the amount so deducted to the Commissioner together with
               a return in writing of the amount of the payment the amount of
       tax deducted, and such other information as the Commissioner
       may specify; and
       (b) furnish the person to whom the payment is made with a certificate
                  stating the amount of the payment and the amount of the tax
       deducted
       (5A) The Commissioner shall pay the tax deducted from winnings
under subsection (I)(i) and (3)(h) into the Sports, Arts and Social
Development Fund established under section 24 of the Public Finance
Management Act, (Cap 412A).
       (6) Deleted by Act No. 38 of 2016, s. 9(d).
       (6A) Where any person who is required under subsection (3A) to
deduct tax-
       (a) fails to make the deduction or fails to deduct the whole amount of
       the tax which he should have deducted; or
       (b) fails to remit the amount of any deduction to the Commissioner
       on or before the twentieth day of the month following the month
         in which such deduction was made or ought to have been made,
       any Collector of Stamp Duties appointed under section 4 of the
         Stamp Duty Act (Cap. 48O), shall not stamp the instrument of
        which the property is the subject matter under the Stamp Duty
       Act, and Registrars of Title or Land Registrars appointed under
       any written law shall not register the property under any written
       law, until such tax has been duly accounted for:


                                                                   637
                      The Finance Bill, 2024                               637
  Provided that the transferee of chargeable property may pay such tax
   and be entitled to recover the amount of the tax from any consideration for
   the transfer in his possession, by action in a court or by any other lawful
means at his disposal.
  (6B) Deleted by Act No. 29 of 2015. 2nd Sch.
       (6C) Subject to subsection (6B), the provisions of this Act relating to
appeals to local committees against assessment shall apply mutatis
mutandis to appeals under this section.
  (6D) A person aggrieved by the imposition, by the Commissioner, of
a penalty under this section may, by notice in writing to the
Commissioner, object to the imposition within thirty days of the date of
service of the notice of the imposition.
  (6E) The provisions of this Act in respect of objections shall, mutatis
mutandis, apply to objections under this section.
          (7) The Cabinet Secretary may, by notice in the Gazette, exempt from
the provisions of subsection (3) of this section any payment or class of
 payments made by any person or class of persons resident or having a
 permanent establishment in Kenya.
             (8) The Cabinet Secretary may, by notice in the Gazette, amend or
 add to the Fourth Schedule in respect of financial institutions resident or
 having a permanent establishment in Kenya.
 Section 72C of Cap 470 it is proposed to amend-
  72C. Penalty on underpayment of instalment tax
          (I) Subjeet to the Twelfth Schedule, a penalty of twenty per cent of
     the difference between the amount of instalment tax payable in respect of
  a year of income as specified in section 12, and the instalment tax actually
  paid multiplied by one hundred and ten per cent shall be payable.
  ) Where the Commissioner is satisfied that the difference referred


         h
  income the ieence s wholly o party o n stmate o  to
 income the difference arises wholly or partly from an estimate of tax to e
 charged made before any change in any allowance, rele or rate of tax, the
 Commissioner may remit the interest charged thereon to the extent to
 which it is attributable to such a change:
  Provided that
  () the Commissioner may remit up to a maximum of one million
   five hundred thousand shillings per person per annum of the
   penalty or interest; and


  638      The Finance Bill, 2024
         (b) the Commissioner may remit any amount of penalty or interest in
         excess of one million five hundred thousand shillings with the
           prior written approval of the Cabinet Secretary, and
         (c) the Commissioner shall make a quarterly report to the Cabinet
         Secretary of all penalties and interest remitted during that quarter.
  Section 133 of Cap 470 it is proposed to amend
         133. Repeals and transitional
           () This Act shall have effect notwithstanding any Act of the
   Community and shall ot be construed s being repealed y any Act f the
  Community enacted hereafter.
          Subject to subsection (4) of this section, the East African Income
  Tax Management Act (E.A. Cap. 24) shall, notwithstanding anything
  contained in the Treaty or East African Co-operation Act Cap. ), cease
  to have the force of law in Kenya with effect from Ist January, 1974.
         (3) Subject to subsection (4) of this section, the Income Tax
  (Allowances and Rates) (No. 2) Act, 1971 (Act No. 29 of 1971), is
  repealed.
       ) Notwithstanding subsections (2) and (3) of this section, the East
 African Income Tax Management Act and the Income Tax (Allowances
 aRates (No. Act, , shal eman n oe or ll pus in
  Rate (No. Act,, shall reman n fore or ll pupoes n
 relation to the year of income 173 and previous years of income and the
 Income Tax (Allowances and Rates) (No. 2) Act, 1971, shall be read and
 construed as if, when enacted, the Second Schedule thereto contained the
 following additional paragraph—
         "3. The non-resident tax rates shall be the rates set out in
     paragraph I of the Third Schedule to this Act and for the purposes of
   this paragraph such rates shall be charged from 18th June, 1971."
        )The transitional provisions contained in the Sixth Schedule shall
have effect notwithstanding anything contained in this Act.
                  6)Notwithstanding the repeal of the Second Schedule, the
provisions of paragraph 24 E of the repealed Schedule shall continue to be
in force until 31st December, 2023.
              Subject to the provisions f sectionf thisAct, any investment
ance n y tten on a    a  coeeen
this Act, shall be claimed on a straight-line basis.
First Schedule to Cap 470 it is proposed to amend-
         Part I - INCOME ACCRUED IN, DERIVED FROM OR
         RECEIVED IN KENYA WHICH IS EXEMPT FROM TAX
   6.The income, other than income from investments, of an amateur
sporting association, that is to say, an association


               The Finance Bill. 2024                          639
                                                               639
      () whose sole or main object is to foster and control any outdoor
  sport; and
  (b) whose members consist only of amateurs or affiliated associations
  the members of which consist only of amateurs: and
         (c) whose memorandum of association or by-laws have provisions
            defining an amateur or a professional and providing that no
  person may be or continue to be a member of such association if
  such person is not an amateur.
  13. The income of any registered trust scheme.
  51. Interest income accruing from all listed bonds, notes or other
  similar securities used to raise funds for infrastructure and other
  social services, provided that such bonds, notes or securities shall
  have a maturity of at least three years.
 53. Monthly pension granted to a person who is sixty-five years of
  age or more.
  57. The income or principal sum of a registered family trust.
 57. The income of the National Housing Development Fund.
 58. Income earned by an individual who is registered under the Ajira
 Digital Program for three years beginning 1st January, 2020;
 Provided that-
 (a) the individual shall qualify for the exemption upon payment of
 registration fee of ten thousand shillings per annum; and
 (b) the Cabinet Secretary shall, in consultation with the Cabinet
 Secretary for the ministry responsible for information communication
 technology, issue regulations for the better carrying out of this
 provision.
 58. Any capital gains relating to the transfer of title of immovable
 property to a family trust.
 59. The amount withdrawn from the National Housing Development
Fund to purchase a house by a contributor who is a first-time home-
owner.
 60. Interest income accruing from all listed bonds, notes or other
similar securities used to raise funds for infrastructure, projects and
 assets defined under Green Bonds Standards and Guidelines, and
 other social services: Provided that such bonds, notes or securities
shall have a maturity of at least three years.


640                The Finance Bill, 2024
              71. Income earned by a non-resident contractor, sub-contractor,
       consultant or employee involved in the implementation of a project
       financed through a one hundred percent grant under an agreement
            between the Government and the development partner, to the extent
       provided for in the Agreement:
       Provided that the non-resident is in Kenya solely for the
       implementation of the project financed by the one hundred percent
       grant.
       72. Gains on transfer of property within a special economnic zone
       enterprise, developer and operator.
Second schedule to Cap.470 it is proposed to amend-
SECOND SCHEDULE                           [ss.4.5 and 15]
INVESTMENT ALLOWANCE
       (c) Purchase or an acquisition of an indefeasible right to use fibre
optic cable by a telecommunication operator              10%
per year, in equal instalments
Third Schedule to Cap 470 it is proposed to amend-
THIRD SCHEDULE
[ss. 29,30,31,32,33,34 and 35]
RATES OF PERSONAL RELIEFS AND TAX
HEAD A - RESIDENT PERSONAL RELIEF
       3. Affordable housing relief
       The amount of affordable housing relief shall be 15% of the
employee's contribution but shall not exceed Ksh. 108,000 per annum.
       4. Post-retirement medical fund relief
       The amount of post-retirement medical fund relief shall be fifteen per
cent of the amount of contribution paid or sixty thousand shillings per
annum, whichever is lower.
       HEAD B - RATES OF TAX
       2. The corporate rate of tax shall be-
       (i) in the case of a company that constructed at least four hundred
        residential units annually, fifteen per cent for that year of income.
        subject to approval by the Cabinet Secretary responsible for
        housing.


                The Finance Bill, 2024                   641
                                                         641
    Provided that where a company is engaged in multiple activities
    which include the ones specified in subparagraph (i), the rate of
    fifteen per cent shall be applied proportionately to the extent of
    the turnover arising from the housing activity
  3. The non-resident tax rates shall be—
  (k) in respect of gains or profits from the business of a ship-owner
    which is chargeable to tax under section 9(1) of the Act, two and
    a half per cent of the gross amount received;
  (t) in the case of digital content monetisation, twenty percent of the
   gross amount;
 5. The resident withholding tax rates shall be-
 (b) in respect of interest, discount or original issue discount arising
   from-
   (i) bearer instrument other than a Government bearer bond of at
    least two years duration, twenty-five per cent;
   (ii) Government Bearer Bond of at least two years duration and
    other sources, fifteen per cent;
   (iii) bearer bonds with a maturity of ten years and above, ten per
    cent of the gross amount payable, of the gross amount
    payable;
(d) (i) in respect of a payment of a pension or any withdrawal made
    after the expiry of fifteen years from the date of joining the fund,
   or on the attainment of the age of fifty years, or upon earlier
   retirement on the grounds of ill-health or infirmity of body and
   mind, from a registered pension fund, registered provident fund,
            the National Social Security Fund or a registered individual
   retirement fund, in excess of the tax free amounts specified under
   section 8(4) and 8(5) in any one year and, provided that tax has
   not been deducted under section 37—
(f) (i) in respect of management or professional fee or training fee,
  other than contractual fee, the aggregate value of which is twenty-
     four thousand shillings in a month or more, five per cent of the
   gross amount payable:
(f) (ii) (ii) in respect of contractual fee the aggregate value of which
   is twenty-four thousand shillings in a month or more, three per
   cent of the gross amount payable:
(jb) in respect to the disbursement of deemed income to beneficiaries
  under section 11(3)(c) the rate of twenty five percent.


642                          The Finance Bill, 2024
       12. The rate of tax in respect of digital service tax under section 12E
shall be one point five per cent of the gross transaction value.
Eighth Schedule to Cap. 470 it is proposed to amend-
EIGHTH SCHEDULE
[ss. 3 and 15]
ACCRUAL AND COMPUTATION OF GAINS FROM PROPERTY
OTHER THAN INVESTMENT SHARES TRANSFERRED BY
INDIVIDUALS
Part I
       1.Interpretation
       "company" includes—
       (a) a members' club deemed under section 21(1) to be carrying on a
       business;
       (b) a trade association that elects under section 21(2) to be deemed to
        carry on a business;
       (3) For the purposes of this Schedule two persons are "related
persons" if-
(a) either person participates directly or indirectly in the management,
       control or capital of the business of the other, or
         (b) any third person participates directly or indirectly in the
        management, control or capital of the business of both.
       6. Meaning of transfer
       (2) There is no transfer of property for the purposes of this
Schedule-
       (h) by the transfer of assets—
        (i) between spouses;
        (ii) between former spouses as part of a divorce settlement or a
         bona fide separation agreement;
       (iii) to immediate family:
       (iv) to immediate family as part of a divorce or bona fide
         separation agreement; or
       (v) to a company where spouses or a spouse and immediate
         family hold 100% shareholding;


                      The Finance Bill, 2024                     643
                                                                 643
Eleventh schedule to Cap.470 it is proposed to amend-
ELEVENTH SCHEDULE
TAXATION OF EXPORT PROCESSING ZONE ENTERPRISES
       4. Notwithstanding that an export processing zone enterprise will be
exempted from paying any corporation tax for the period specified in
subparagraph 2(f) of the Third Schedule, the enterprise will nonetheless be
required to comply with Part VIII of the Act and will submit an annual
   return of income under Section 52 or a return of income, together with a
self-assessment of tax under section 52B and business accounts under
Section 54 as is the case with all liable enterprises, and in the event of
failure to submit a return or late submission of a return, the enterprise will
be liable to a penalty of two thousand shillings per day for as long as the
failure continues.
Section 8of Cap. 476 it is proposed to amend-
  8. Place of supply of services
  (1) A supply of services is made in Kenya if the place of business of
the supplier from which the services are supplied is in Kenya.
    (2) If the place of business of the supplier is not in Kenya, the supply
     of services shall be deemed to be made in Kenya if the recipient of the
supply is not a registered person and—
 (a) the services are physically performed in Kenya by a person who is
  in Kenya at the time of supply;
  (b) the services are directly related to immovable property in Kenya;
 (c) the services are radio or television broadcasting services received
  at an address in Kenya;
 (d) the services are electronic services delivered to a person in Kenya
  at the time of supply; or
  (e) the supply is a transfer or assignment of, or grant of a right to use,
  a copyright, patent, trademark, or similar right in Kenya.
  (3) In this section-
 "electronic services" means any of the following services, when
provided or delivered on or through a telecommunications network—
 (a) websites, web-hosting, or remote maintenance of programs and
  equipment;
 (b) software and the updating of software;


 644                The Finance Bill, 2024
          (c) images, text, and information;
          (d) access to databases;
          (e) self-education packages:
          (f) music, films, and games, including games of chance; or
          (g) political, cultural, artistic, sporting, scientific and other broadcasts
           and events including broadcast television.
 Section 12 of Cap. 476 it is proposed to amend-
          12. Time of supply of goods and services
         (1) Subject to subsection (3), the time of supply, including a supply
 of imported services, shall be the earlier of—
         (a) the date on which the goods are delivered or services performed;
         (b) the date a certificate is issued by an architect, surveyor or any
           other person acting as a consultant in a supervisory capacity:
         (c) the date on which the invoice for the supply is issued; or
        d) the date on which payment for the supply is received, in whole or
           in part.
         () The time of supply of goods by means of a vending machine.
meter, or other device operated by use of a coin, note, or token shall be on
the date the coin, note, or token is taken from the machine, meter, or other
device by or on behalf of the supplier.
        (3) If-
        (a) goods are supplied under a rental agreement; or
        (a) goods are supplied under a rental agreement; or
                (b) goods or services are made by metered supplies, or under an
                (b) goods or services are made by metered supplies, or under an
                agreement or law that provides for periodic payments, the goods
                agreement or law that provides for periodic payments, the goods
           or services shall be treated as successively supplied for successive
           or services shall be treated as successively supplied for successive
             parts of the period of the lease or agreement, or as determined by
             parts of the period of the lease or agreement, or as determined by
            law, and the time of each successive supply shall be the earlier of
            law, and the time of each successive supply shall be the earlier of
                  the date on which payment for the successive supply is due or
                  the date on which payment for the successive supply is due or
           received.
           received.
  (4) The time of supply of imported goods shall be—
  (4) The time of supply of imported goods shall be—
          (a) in the case of goods cleared for home use directly at the port of
          (a) in the case of goods cleared for home use directly at the port of
           importation, or goods entered for removal to an inland station and
             importation, or goods entered for removal to an inland station and
           there cleared for home use, at the time of customs clearance;
           there cleared for home use, at the time of customs clearance;


                   The Finance Bill, 2024                              645

 (b) in the case of goods removed to a licensed warehouse subsequent
  to importation, at the time of final clearance from the warehouse
  for home use;
 (c) in the case of goods removed from an export processing zone or a
  special economic zone, at the time of removal for home use;
 (d) in any other case, at the time the goods are brought into Kenya.
Section 17 of Cap 476 it is proposed-
 17. Credit for input tax against output tax
 (1) Subject to the provisions of this Act and the regulations, input tax
on a taxable supply to, or importation made by, a registered person may, at
the end of the tax period in which the supply or importation occurred, be
deducted by the registered person in a return for the period, subject to the
exceptions provided under this section, from the tax payable by the person
on supplies by him in that tax period, but only to the extent that the supply
or importation was acquired to make taxable supplies.
 (2) If, at the time when a deduction for input tax would otherwise be
allowable under subsection (1)-
 (a) the person does not hold the documentation referred to in
 subsection (3), or
  (b) the registered supplier has not declared the sales invoice in a
  return, the deduction for input tax shall not be allowed until the
     first tax period in which the person holds such documentation:
  Provided that the input tax shall be allowable for a deduction
  within six months after the end of the tax period in which the
  supply or importation occurred.
 (3) The documentation for the purposes of subsection (2) shall be—
 (a) an original tax invoice issued for the supply or a certified copy;
 (b) a customs entry duly certified by the proper officer and a receipt
  for the payment of tax;
  (c) a customs receipt and a certificate signed by the proper officer
  stating the amount of tax paid, in the case of goods purchased
  from a customs auction, and
 (d) a credit note in the case of input tax deducted under section 16(2);
 (e) a debit note in the case of input tax deducted under section
  16(5);or


 646      The Finance Bill, 2024
         () in the case of a participant in the Open Tender System for the
          importation of petroleum products that have been cleared through
         a non-bonded facility, the custom entry showing the name and
                    PIN of the winner of the tender and the name of the other oil
          marketing company participating in the tender:
         Provided that the input tax that may have been incurred by an oil
         marketing company participating in the Open Tender System before
           the coming into force of this provision shall be claimed within twelve
        months after this provision comes into force.
         (4) A registered person shall not deduct input tax under this Act if the
 tax relates to the acquisition, leasing or hiring of—
        (a) passenger cars or mini buses, and the repair and maintenance
                 thereof including spare parts, unless the passenger cars or mini
                  buses are acquired by the registered person exclusively for the
          purpose of making a taxable supply of that automobile in the
               ordinary course of a continuous and regular business of selling or
          dealing in or hiring of passenger cars or mini buses; or
         (b) entertainment, restaurant and accommodation services unless—
             (i) the services are provided in the ordinary course of the business
          carried on by the person to provide the services and the
          services are not supplied to an associate or employee; or
                  (ii) the services are provided while the recipient is away from
               home for the purposes of the business of the recipient or the
          recipient's employer:
          Provided that no tax shall be charged on the supply where no input
 tax deduction was allowed on that supply under this subsection.
 (5) Where the amount of input tax that may be deducted by a
registered person under subsection (1) in respect of a tax period exceeds
the amount of output tax due for the period, the amount of the excess shall
be carried forward as input tax deductible in the next tax period:
        Provided that any such excess shall be paid to the registered person
        by the Commissioner where -
        (a) such excess arises from making zero rated supplies; or
        (b) such excess arises from tax withheld by appointed tax
         withholding agents; and
 (c) such excess arising out of tax withheld by appointed tax
         withholding agents may be applied against any tax payable under


                        The Finance Bill, 2024                          647
   this Act or any other written law, or is due for refund pursuant to
   section 47(4) of the Tax Procedures Act (Cap. 469B):
   (d) the registered person lodges the claim for the refund of the excess
   tax within twenty-four months from the date the tax becomes due
   and payable; and
   Provided further that, notwithstanding section 17(5)(d), a registered
   person who, within a period of thirty-six months prior to the
   commencement of section 17(5)(b) and (c), has a credit arising from
   withholding tax, may make an application for a refund of the excess
   tax within twelve months from I st July 2022.
   (e) such excess arises from input tax under subsection (8):
   Provided that a registered person who, since the commencement of
        subsection (8) but before the commencement of this provision, has a
 credit arising from input tax under subsection (8) may apply for the
   refund of excess tax within twelve months from 1 st July 2022.
   (6) Subject to this Act, if a taxable supply to, or a taxable import by, a
 registered person during a tax period relates partly to making taxable
supplies and partly for another use, the input tax deductible by the person
 for acquisitions made during the tax period shall be determined as follows

  (a) full deduction of all the input tax attributable to taxable supplies;
   (b) no deduction of any input tax which is directly attributable to
   other use; and
  (c) deduction of input tax attributable to both taxable supplies and
   other uses calculated according to the following formula:
 Ax B
  C
  where
  A is the total amount of input tax payable by the person during the
 tax period on acquisitions that relate partly to making taxable supplies and
 partly for another use;
 B is the value of all taxable supplies made by the registered person
 during the period; and
 C is the value of all supplies made by the registered person during the
 period in Kenya
  (7) If the fraction of the formula in subsection (6) for a tax period-


 648     The Finance Bill, 2024
          (a) is more than 0.90, the registered person shall be allowed an input
               tax credit for all of the input tax comprising component A of the
         formula; or
           (b) is less than 0.10, the registered person shall not be allowed any
                input tax credit for the input tax comprising component A of the
         formula.
         (8) Notwithstanding the provisions of this section, a registered person
 who is a manufacturer may make a deduction for input tax with respect to
 taxable supplies made to an official aid funded project as may be approved
 by the Cabinet Secretary in accordance with the First Schedule.
 Section 3I of Cap 476 it is proposed to amend-
         31. Refund of tax on bad debts
         (1) Where a registered person has made a supply and has accounted
 for and paid tax on that supply but has not received any payment from the
 person liable to pay the tax, he may, after a period of three years from the
          date of that supply or where that person has become legally insolvent.
apply to the Commissioner for a refund of the tax involved and subject to
the regulations, the Commissioner may refund the tax:
              Provided that no application for a refund shall be made under this
         section after the expiry of four years from the date of the supply.
         (②) Where the tax refunded under subsection (I) is subsequently
recovered from the recipient of the supply, the registered person shall
refund the tax to the Commissioner within thirty days of the date of the
recovery.
         (3) If payment is not made within the time specified under subsection
(2), an interest of two per cent per month or part thereof of the tax
refunded shall forthwith be due and payable:
        Provided that the interest payable shall not exceed one hundred per
        cent of the refunded amount.
Section 34 of Cap 476 it is proposed to amend-
         34. Application for registration
        (1) A person who in the course of a business-
        (a) has made taxable supplies or expects to make taxable supplies, the
         value of which is five million shillings or more in any period of
         twelve months; or
        (b) is about to commenice making taxable supplies the value of which
         is reasonably expected to exceed five million shillings in any


                         The Finance Bill, 2024               649
    period of twelve months, shall be liable for registration under this
    Act and shall, within thirty days of becoming so liable, apply to
    the Commissioner for registration in the prescribed form:
  Provided that this section shall not apply to persons supplying
  imported digital services over the internet or an electronic network or
   through a digital marketplace in respect to a turnover threshold of
  five million shillings.
   (2) In determining whether a person exceeds the registration
threshold for a period, the value of the following taxable supplies shall be
excluded-
   (a) a taxable supply of a capital asset of the person; and
   (b) a taxable supply made solely as a consequence of the person
                       selling the whole or a part of the person's business or
   permanently ceasing to carry on the person's business.
          (3) Notwithstanding subsection (1), a person who makes or intends to
               make taxable supplies may apply, in the prescribed form, to the
Commissioner for voluntary registration.
  (4) The Commissioner shall register a person who has applied for
voluntary registration under subsection (3) if satisfied that—
  (a) the person is making, or shall make taxable supplies;
  (b) the person has a fixed place from which the person's business is
   conducted;
  (c) if the person has commenced carrying on a business, the person—
   i) has kept proper records of its business; and
   (ii) has complied with its obligations under other revenue laws;
         and
 (d) there are reasonable grounds to believe that the person shall keep
   proper records and file regular and reliable tax returns.
 (5) The Commissioner shall issue a registered person with a tax
registration certificate in the prescribed form.
 (6) If the Commissioner is satisfied that a person eligible to apply for
registration has not done so within the time limit specified in subsection
(1), the Commissioner shall register the person.
 (7) The registration of a person under subsection (1) or (6) shall take
effect from the beginning of the first tax period after the person is required


 650                     The Finance Bill, 2024
 to apply for registration, or such later period as may be specified in the
  person's tax registration certificate.
        (8) The registration of a person under subsection (4) shall take effect
  from the date specified in the person's tax registration certificate.
        (9) The Cabinet Secretary may, in regulations, provide for the
registration of a group of companies as one registered person for the
purposes of the Act.
First Schedule to Cap. 476 it is proposed to amend-
 FIRST SCHEDULE
 [s.2(1)]
 EXEMPT SUPPLIES
 PARTI-GOODS
SECTION A
Tariff Number            Description
        8802.30.00       Aeroplanes and other Aircrafts on unladen
                      weight exceeding 2,000 kgs but not exceeding
                      15,000kgs
        8802.60.00    Spacecraft (including satellites) and suborbital
                      and spacecraft launch
        Gluten bread.
        Unleavened bread.
        49. Aircraft parts of heading 8803, excluding parts of goods of
heading 8801
      54. Goods imported or purchased locally for use by the local film
producers and local filming agents, upon recommendation by the Kenya
Film Commission, subject to approval by the Cabinet Secretary to the
National Treasury.
    57. All goods including material supplies, equipment, machinery and
motor vehicles, for official use by the Kenya Defence Forces and the
National Police Service.
        58. Direction-finding compasses, instruments and appliances for
aircraft.
        62. Taxable goods for direct and exclusive use for the construction of
tourism facilities, recreational parks of fifty acres or more, convention and


                         The Finance Bill, 2024                    651

         conference facilities upon recommendation by the Cabinet Secretary
responsible for matters relating to recreational parks.
  For the purposes of this paragraph. "recreational parks" means an
area or a building where a person can voluntarily participate in a physical
     or mental activity for enjoyment, improvement of general health, well-
being and the development of skills.
  63. Deleted by Act No. 22 of 2022, s. 30(a)(ii).
  Provided that notwithstanding this subparagraph, any approval
 granted by the Cabinet Secretary before the commencement thereof
    in respect of the supply of taxable goods and which is in force at such
               commencement shall continue to apply until the supply of the
 exempted taxable goods is made in full.
  77. Pressure sensitive adhesive of tariff number 3506.91.00.
  78. Plain polythene film/LPDE of tariff number 3921.19.10
 79. Plain polythene film/PE of tariff number 3921.19.10
  80. PE white 25-40gsm/release paper of tariff number 481 1.49.00.
  81. ADL 25-40gsm of tariff number 5603.11.00
  91. Specially designed locally assembled motor vehicles for
transportation of tourists, purchased before clearance through Customs by
tour operators upon recommendation by the competent authority
responsible for tourism promotion, provided the vehicles meet the
following conditions-
 (i) the vehicles shall at all times be registered and operated by a
   company that is licenced under the Tourism Vehicle Regime;
  (ii) the vehicles shall be used exclusively for the transportation of
   tourists;
     (iii) the vehicles shall have provisions for camping, rescue and first
   aid equipment, luggage compartments and communication
   fittings; and
 (iv) any other condition the Commissioner may impose:
               Provided that tax shall become payable upon change of use or
  disposal of the vehicle for other use.
  107. Plant, machinery and equipment used in the construction of a
plastics recycling plant.


 652              The Finance Bill, 2024
        110. Musical instruments and other musical equipment, imported or
 purchased locally, for exclusive use by educational institutions, upon
 recommendation by the Cabinet Secretary responsible for Education.
        113. Specialized equipment for the development and generation of
 solar and wind energy, including photovoltaic modules, direct current
 charge controllers, direct current inverters and deep cycle batteries that use
 or store solar power, upon recommendation to the Commissioner by the
 Cabinet Secretary responsible for matters relating to energy.
        114. Taxable goods supplied to persons that had an agreement or
 contract with the Government prior to 25th April 2020 and the agreement
 or contract provided for exemption from value added tax: Provided that
 this exemption shall apply to the unexpired period of the contract or
 agreement and upon recommendation by the Cabinet Secretary responsible
 for matters relating to energy.
        145. Taxable goods, inputs and raw materials imported or locally
purchased by a company which is-
        (a) engaged in business under a special operating framework
        arrangement with the Government; and
        (b) incorporated for purposes of undertaking the manufacture of
        human vaccines or other manufacturing activities including
        refining; and whose capital investment is at least ten billion
        shillings, subject to approval of the Cabinet Secretary for the
        National Treasury, on recommendation of the Cabinet Secretary
        for health.
              146. Such capital goods the exemption of which the Cabinet
      Secretary may determine to promote investment in the manufacturing
sector:
        Provided that the value of such investment is not less than two billion
        shillings.
SECTION B - EXEMPT GOODS ON TRANSITION
  (1) The following goods shall be exempt supplies for a period of
three years from the commencement of this Act unless the exempt status
of the supplies is earlier revoked
        2709.00.00 Petroleum oils and oils obtained from bituminous
minerals, crude.
  2710.12.10 Motor spirit (gasoline) regular
  2710.12.20 Motor spirit (gasoline), premium.


                                                              653
                  The Finance Bill, 2024                      653

2710.12.30 Aviation spirit
2710.12.40 Spirit type jet fuel
2710.12.50 Special boiling point spirit and white spirit.
2710.12.90 Other light oils and preparations.
2710.19.10 Partly refined (including topped crudes).
2710.19.21 Kerosene type jet fuel.
2710.19.22 Illuminating kerosene (IK)
2710.19.29 Other medium petroleum oils and preparations.
2710.19.31 Gas oil (automotive, light, amber, for high speed
engines).
2710.19.39 Other gas oils.
271 1.21.00 Natural gas in gaseous state
271 1.29. 00 Other natural gas in gaseous state.
(②) Notwithstanding paragraph (1), the exemption shall be extended
by a further two years from Ist September, 2016.
PART II - SERVICES
The supply of the following services shall be exempt supplies—
I. The following financial services—
(a) the operation of current, deposit or savings accounts, including the
 provision of account statements;
(b) the issue, transfer, receipt or any other dealing with money.
 including money transfer services, and accepting over the counter
 payments of household bills, but excluding the services of
 carriage of cash, restocking of cash machines, sorting or counting
 of money;
(c) issuing of credit and debit cards;
(d) automated teller machine transactions, excluding the supply of
 automated teller machines and the software to run it;
(e) telegraphic money transfer services:
(f) foreign exchange transactions, including the supply of foreign
 drafts and international money orders;
(g) cheque handling. processing. clearing and settlement, including
 special clearance or cancellation of cheques;


 654                        The Finance Bill, 2024
        (h) the making of any advances or the granting of any credit;
        (i) issuance of securities for money, including bills of exchange,
          promissory notes, money and postal orders;
        (i) the provision of guarantees, letters of credit and acceptance and
          other forms of documentary credit;
        (k) the issue, transfer, receipt or any other dealing with bonds, Sukuk,
          debentures, treasury bills, shares and stocks and other forms of
          security or secondary security;
        (l) the assignment of a debt for consideration;
        (m) The provision of the above financial services on behalf of
          another on a commission basis.
        (n) deleted by Act No. 10 of 2018, s. 19(b)(i).
        (o) any services set out in items (a) to (n) that are structured in
          conformity with Islamic finance.
        2.Insurance and reinsurance services excluding the following-
        (a) management and related insurance consultancy services.
        (b) actuarial services; and
        (c) services of insurance assessors and loss adjusters.
 Second schedule to Cap.476 it is proposed to amend-
SECOND SCHEDULE
 [s. 7(2)]
 ZERO-RATING
 PART A - ZERO RATED SUPPLIES
                 Where the following supplies, excluding hotel accommodation,
restaurant or entertainment services where applicable, take place in the
course of a registered person's business, they shall be zero rated in
accordance with the provisions of section 7-
                 16. All inputs and raw materials whether produced locally or
 imported, supplied to manufacturers of agricultural pest control products
upon recommendation by the Cabinet Secretary for the time being
responsible for agriculture.
        19. Agricultural pest control products.
        21. Transportation of sugarcane from farms to milling factories.


                 The Finance Bill, 2024                          655
 26. Inbound international sea freight offered by a registered person.
 29. The supply of locally assembled and manufactured mobile
phones.
 30. The supply of motorcycles of tariff heading 871 1.60.00
 31. The supply of electric bicycles
 32. The supply of solar and lithium ion batteries.
 33. The supply of electric buses of tariff heading 87.02.
 34. Taxable services imported or locally purchased by a company
which-
        (a) is engaged in business under a special operating framework
       arrangement with the Government; and
 (b) is incorporated for purposes of undertaking the manufacture of
            human vaccines or other manufacturing activities including
        refining: and whose capital investment is at least ten billion
      shillings, subject to approval of the Cabinet Secretary for the
         National Treasury, on recommendation of the Cabinet Secretary
       for health.
           35. Bioethanol vapour (BEV) Stoves classified under HS Code
7321.12.00 (cooking appliancesand plate warmers for liquid fuel).
Section 2 of Cap. 472 it is proposed to amend-
 2.Interpretation
 (1) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires—
 "approved form" shall have the meaning assigned to it under the Tax
Procedures Act (Cap. 469B);
 "aircraft" means every description of conveyance by air of human
beinigs or goods;
  "arm's length transaction" means a transaction between persons
dealing with each other at arm's length;
"authorised officer" means an officer authorised by the
Commissioner for the purposes of this Act;
 "betting" shall have the meaning assigned to it under the Betting,
Lotteries and Gaming Act (Cap. 131);
 "bookmaker" shall have the meaning assigned to it under section 2 of
the Betting, Lotteries and Gaming Act (Cap. 131);


656             The Finance Bill, 2024
       "Cabinet Secretary" means the Cabinet Secretary for the time being
 responsible for matters relating to finance;
       "Commissioner" means the Commissioner-General appointed under
 the Kenya Revenue Authority Act (Cap. 469);
       "compound" has the meaning assigned to it in section 2 of the
 Compounding of Potable Spirits Act (Cap. 123);
       "concessional loan" means a loan with at least twenty-five percent
 grant element;
       "denature" means to render unfit for human consumption;
       "distillery" means a licensed distiller's factory;
       "duty of customs" means import duty, countervailing duty, or surtax
 charged under the East African Community Customs Management Act,
 2004;
       "ex-factory selling price" has the meaning assigned to it in section
11:
       "excisable goods" means the goods specified in Part I of the First
 Schedule;
       "excisable services" means the services specified in Part II of the
 First Schedule;
       "excise control" has the meaning assigned to it in section 23:
       "excise duty" means the excise duty imposed under this Act:
       "exempt goods" means goods specified in the Second Schedule;
       "export" means to take or cause to be taken from Kenya to a foreign
 country, a special economic zone or to an export processing zone;
       "export processing zone" has the meaning assigned to it in section 2
 of the Export Processing Zones Act (Cap. 517);
       "factory" means any premises at which a licensed manufacturer is
licensed to manufacture and store excisable goods, but does not include
 any part of the premises through which excisable goods are sold to the
public:
       "import" means to bring or cause goods to be brought into Kenya
from a foreign country, a special economic zone or an export processing
zone;


                         The Finance Bill, 2024                          657
                                                                         657
              "importer" in relation to goods, means the person who owns the
  goods, or any other person who is, for the time being, in possession of or
 beneficially interested in the goods at the time of importation;
    "international traffic", in relation to an aircraft or vessel, means any
 operation of the aircraft or vessel, except as between two places in Kenya;
   "international organization" shall have the meaning assigned to it
under the Tax Procedures Act (Cap. 469B);
     "licence"-
     (a) in the case of excisable services, means the certificate of
     registration;
    (b) in the case of excisable goods, means the licence issued under
     section 17; or
    (c) in the case of any activity under section 15(1)(e), means the
     licence
     required thereunder;
    "licensed distiller" means a distiller licensed under section 17;
    "licensed manufacturer" means a person licensed under section 17 to
manufacture excisable goods;
   "licensed person" means a person licensed or registered under section
17:
    "manufacture"includes-
   (a) the production of excisable goods:
    (b) any intermediate or uncompleted process in the production of
     excisable goods; or
   (c) the distilling, rectifying, compounding, or denaturing of spirits;
    "open market value" has the meaning assigned to it in section 3;
    "official aid funded project" means a project funded by means of a
grant or concessional loan in accordance with an agreement between the
Government and any foreign government, agency, institution, foundation,
organization or any other aid agency;
     "possession" means having, owning or controlling any excisable
goods
   including-
   (a) having in one's possession any excisable goods;


  658                      The Finance Bill, 2024
         (b) knowingly having any excisable goods in the actual possession or
         custody of any other person;
         (c) having any excisable goods in any place, whether belonging to or
         occupied by oneself or not, for the use or benefit of oneself; or
         (d) having any excisable goods for the use or benefit of another
         person:
         Provided that if there are two or more persons and any of them with
  the knowledge or consent of the others has any excisable goods in his
  custody or possession, such goods shall be deemed to be in the custody
  and possession of all of them;
         "prescribed" means prescribed in the Regulations;
         "rectify" means to redistill spirits removed from a spirits receiver for
  the purpose of purifying or inserting flavour;
         "special economic zone" shall have the meaning assigned to it under
 the Special Economic Zones Act (Cap. 517A);
         "spirits" means spirits of any description and includes all liquor
mixed with spirits and all mixtures and compounds or preparations made
 with spirits, but does not include denatured spirits;
         "still" means a distilling apparatus and includes any part of a still;
         "stores" means goods for use or consumption by passengers or crew
 on an aircraft or ship while in international traffic, and includes goods for
 sale on board such aircraft or vessel;
         "supply", in relation to services, has the meaning assigned to it under
 the Value Added Tax Act (Cap. 476);
         "tax law" shall have the meaning assigned to it under the Tax
Procedures Act (Cap. 469B);
         "the Regulations" means regulations made under this Act;
         "time of importation" has the meaning assigned to it meaning in
section 4(2);
         "time of supply", in relation to excisable services, has the meaning in
section 4(1);
         "unexcisable goods" means goods that are not excisable goods;
         "unexcised goods or services" means excisable goods or services
liable for excise duty but, in respect of which, the full amount of excise
duty due has not been paid;


                The Finance Bill, 2024                            659
  "value added tax" means the value added tax imposed under the
Value Added Tax Act (Cap. 476);
 "vessel" means every description of conveyance by water of human
beings or goods.
 (2) Except when the context otherwise requires, the terms "approved
form", "international organisation", "person", "related person", and "tax
law" have the meanings assigned to them under the Tax Procedures Act
(Cap. 469B).
Section 5 of Cap. 472 it is proposed to amend
 5. Imposition of excise duty
 (1) Subject to this Act, a tax, to be known as excise duty, shall be
charged in accordance with the provisions of this Act on—
 (a) excisable goods manufactured in Kenya by a licensed
 manufacturer;
 (b) excisable services supplied in Kenya by a licensed person; or
 (c) excisable goods imported into Kenya.
 (2) Excise duty shall be charged at the rate specified in the First
Schedule for the excisable goods or services in force at the time the
liability arises for excise duty as determined under section 6.
 (3) The excise duty payable—
 (a) under subsection (l)(a). shall be payable by the licensed
 manufacturer;
(b) under subsection (1)(b), shall be payable by the licensed person
 making the supply: or
(c) under subsection (I)(c), shall be payable by the importer of the
 excisable goods.
Section 7 of Cap. 472 it is proposed to amend-
7. Goods and services not liable to excise duty
(I) Subject to this section, no excise duty shall be charged on the
following
 (a) exempt goods which meet the conditions set out in the Second
 Schedule:
 (b) excisable goods exported under customs control, including as
 stores;


660                       The Finance Bill, 2024
         (c) excisable services exported from Kenya;
         (d) excisable goods that the manufacturer has destroyed, with the
              prior written permission of the Commissioner, under the
          supervision of an authorised officer prior to their removal from
          the factory in which they were manufactured;
         (e) denatured spirits for use in the manufacture of gasohol or as a
         heating fuel;
         (f) excisable goods that have been lost or destroyed by accident or
          other unavoidable cause-
                  (i) in the course of removal of the goods by the manufacturer
                      from the manufacturer's factory including when loading or
          unloading the goods;
                (ii) in the factory of the manufacturer in which the goods were
          manufactured before removal from the factory; or
          (iii) on board an aircraft or vessel prior to importation into Kenya.
                  (2) The Cabinet Secretary may by notice in the Gazette, grant
      remission of excise duty, wholly or partially, in respect of beer or wine
made from sorghum, millet or cassava or any other agricultural products
(excluding barley), grown in Kenya.
       (3) The Gazette notice issued under subsection (2), shall specify the
products and conditions to be met for the remissions to be granted.
       (3A) A notice under subsection (2) of this section shall be laid before
the National Assembly without unreasonable delay, and a resolution may
be passed by the National Assembly within twenty-one days on which it
next sits after the notice is so laid, that the notice—
       (a) be approved; or
        (b) be annulled and it shall thenceforth be void, but without prejudice
         to the validity of anything previously done thereunder, or to the
         issuing of a new notice.
        (4) Excisable services shall be considered to be exported from Kenya
         if the services are supplied from a place of business in Kenya for
         use or consumption outside Kenya.
       (5) An exemption granted under this section shall apply if the
Commissioner is satisfied that-
       (a) the goods referred to in subsection (1)(a) have been received and
         consumed by the exempt person; and


                          The Finance Bill, 2024                661
  (b) excisable goods or services for export under subsections (1)(b)
  and
  (c) have not been, and shall not be consumed in Kenya.
   Subsection (I)(f) (i) and (ii) shall not apply if the licensed
 manufacturer has been compensated for the loss of the excisable goods
and the compensation includes the excise duty payable on the goods, as a
consequence of any of the following—
  (a) an insurance policy, indemnity, or other agreement;
  (b) a settlement; or
  (c) a judicial decision.
 Section 14 of Cap 472 it is proposed to amend-
  14. Relief for raw materials
 (1) Where excise duty has been paid in respect of excisable goods
 imported into, or manufactured in Kenya by a licensed manufacturer and
 which have been used as raw materials in the manufacture of other
excisable goods (hereinafter referred to as "finished goods"), the excise
duty paid on the raw materials shall be offset against the excise duty
payable on the finished goods.
  (2) Where excise duty has been paid in respect of internet data
services by a licensed person who purchases the data in bulk for resale, the
    excise duty paid shall be offset against the excise duty payable by that
person on internet data services supplied to the final consumer.
 Section 17 of Cap.472 it is proposed to amend-
  17. Issue of licence
  (1) Subject to subsection (2), the Commissioner shall consider an
application under section 16 and may grant or refuse to issue the applicant
 with a licence.
   (2) The Commissioner may refuse an application under section 16 if
 satisfied that-
  (a) the applicant has been convicted of an offence under this Act or
  the Tax Procedures Act (Cap. 469B):
  (b) the applicant has been convicted of an offence involving
  dishonesty or fraud under any law;
  (c) the applicant—
  (i) is or has been declared bankrupt or insolvent; or


 662                       The Finance Bill, 2024
         (ii) is in the process of liquidation or receivership;
        (d) in the case of an application to be a manufacturer of excisable
         goods, the factory, plant or equipment, specified in the
         application is not adequate to manufacture or secure excisable
         goods;
        (e) the applicant has not kept proper records as required under any tax
        law or has otherwise failed to comply with its obligations under a
        tax law; or
        paragraphs (a), (b), (c) or (e) apply to a person related to the
        applicant and the Commissioner is satisfied that the related
        person is reasonably expected to be involved in the conduct of the
        activity to which the application relates.
        3The Commissioner may impose such terms, conditions or
 restrictions as the Commissioner considers appropriate in relation to a
 licence issued under this section.
              (4) The Commissioner shall give an applicant for a licence under
       section 16 written notice of the decision on the application and if the
application is refused, the notice shall include reasons for the refusal.
        (5) A licence shall take effect from the date specified therein by the
Commissioner and shall unless earlier suspended, remain in force until
cancelled under section 21.
Section 36 of Cap. 472 it is proposed to amend-
        36. Payment of excise duty
        (1) The excise duty payable by a licensed manufacturer in respect of
excisable goods removed from a manufacturer's factory during a calendar
month shall be paid not later than the twentieth day of the succeeding
month.
        (1A) Despite subsection (1), in the case of a licensed manufacturer of
alcoholic beverages, excise duty shall be payable to the Commissioner
within twenty-four hours upon removal of the goods from the stockroom.
        () The excise duty payable by a supplier of excisable services in
respect of supplies of excisable services made by the supplier during a
calendar month shall be paid not later than the twentieth day of the
succeeding month.
             (3) The excise duty payable by an importer in respect of the
           importation of excisable goods into Kenya shall be paid to the
Commissioner at the time of importation.


                      The Finance Bill, 2024      663

 (4) For the purpose of assessing, collecting, accounting and enforcing
the payment of excise duty on the importation of goods into Kenya, the
          East African Community Customs Management Act, 2004 shall apply as
if excise duty were customs duty:
Provided that—
          (a) the Tax Procedures Act (Cap. 469B), shall apply with regard to
 imposition of interest and penalties; and
 (b) in cases where interest becomes payable it shall not, in aggregate,
 exceed the principal tax.
 (5) The Commissioner shall pay into the Sports, Arts and Social
Development Fund established under the Public Finance Management Act
(Cap. 412A), to support social development including universal health
care sixteen percent of the excise duty paid in respect of money transfer by
cellular phone service providers.
First Schedule to Cap.472 it is proposed to amend-
FIRST SCHEDULE                                    [s. 5(2)]
RATES OF EXCISE DUTY
 I. Subject to paragraph 2, the rates of excise duty on excisable goods
are as set out in the following table:
Part I - EXCISABLE GOODS
Motor cycles of tariff 87.11          KSh. 12,952.83 per unit
other than            cycle
othert         motor
ambulances     and    locally
assembled motor cycles
Imported cement                       10% of the value or shs. 1.50 per
                                      kg,whichever is higher
Imported cartons, boxes and           25%
cases of corrugated paper or
paper board and imported
folding cartons, boxes and case
of non-corrugated paper or paper
board and imported skillets,
free-hinge lid packets of tariff
heading 4819.10.00, 4819.20.10
and 4819.20.90;
Imported onions of tariff             25%
heading 07.03


 664                      The Finance Bill, 2024
 Imported potatoes, potato crisps        25%
 and potato chips of tariff
 heading 07.01 and imported
 potatoes of tariff numbers
 0710.10.00, 2004.10.00 and
 2005.20.00
        Imported Articles of plastic
 of tariff heading 3923.30.00 and10%
 3923.90.90

 Imported sugar confectionary of         KSh. 42.91 per kg
 tariff heading 17.04
 Wines including fortified wines,    KSh. 243.43 per litre
 and other alcoholic beverages
obtained by fermentation of
fruits
 Beer, Cider, Perry, Mead.               KSh. 142.44 per litre
 Opaque beer and mixtures of
 fermented beverages with non-
 alcoholic   beverages    and
 spirituous beverages of alcoholic
 strength not exceeding 6%
        Spirits of undenatured ethyl     KSh. 356.42 per litre
alcohol; spirits liqueurs and
 other spirituous beverages of
alcoholic strength exceeding 6%
Cigarette with filters (hinge lid        KSh. 4.067.03 per mille
and soft cap)
Cigarettes without filters (plain        KSh. 2,926.41 per Mille
cigarettes)
        Products     containing          KSh. 1,595.00 per mille
nicotine or nicotine substitutes
intended for inhalation without
combustion or oral application
but     excluding    medicinal
products approved by the
Cabinet Secretary responsible
for matters relating to health and
other manufactured tobacco and


                                                                  665
                         The Finance Bill, 2024                            665

manufactured       tobacco
substitutes that have been
homogenized and reconstituted
tobacco, tobacco extracts and
essences
Liquid nicotine for electronic  KSh. 70 per millilitre
cigarettes
                Code
Commodity       Code Raw        Excise duty
Materials
3903.20.00 Imported Emulsion-   10%
styrene Acrylic
2.(1) The specific rates of excise duty on excisable goods specified in
this Schedule shall be adjusted for inflation at the beginning of every
financial year in accordance with this paragraph. (2) Each rate of excise
duty specified in the table in paragraph I shall be replaced by the rate of
excise duty computed by reference to the following formula
A(1+B)
where
A is the rate of excise duty on the day immediately before the
adjustment day; and
B is the adjustment factor for the adjustment day, calculated as the
average rate of monthly inflation of the preceding financial year.
                   Part II - EXCISABLE SERVICES
  1. Telephone and internet data services shall be charged excise duty
at a rate of fifteen percent of their excisable value.
  2. Excise duty in fees charged for money transfer services by banks,
money transfer agencies and other financial service providers shall be
fifteen percent of their excisable value.
 3. Excise duty on fees charged for money transfer services by cellular
phone service providers, shall be fifteen percent of their excisable value.
4. Excise duty on other fees charged by financial institutions shall be
twenty percent of their excisable value.
 4A. Excise duty on betting shall be twelve-point five per cent of the
amount wagered or staked.
Provided that this paragraph shall not apply to horse racing.


666                         The Finance Bill, 2024
       4B. Excise duty on gaming shall be twelve-point five percent of the
 amount wagered or staked.
       4C. Excise duty on prize competition shall be twelve-point five
 percent of the amount paid or charged to participate in a prize competition.
       4D. Excise duty on lottery (excluding charitable lotteries) shall be
 twelve-point five percent of the amount paid or charged to buy the lottery
 ticket.
       5.Deleted by Act No. 8 of 2020, s. 17(b).
    6.Excise duty on fees charged by digital lenders at a rate of twenty
percent.
   7. Excise duty on importation of cellular phones, shall be at ten per
cent of the excisable value.
       8. Excise duty on fees charged on advertisement television, print
media, billboards and radio stations on alcoholic beverages, betting.
gaming, lotteries and prize competitions shall be at the rate of fifteen
percent.
Second schedule to Cap.472 it is proposed to amend-
              PART A -EXEMPT EXCISABLE GOODS
        11. All goods including materials supplies, equipment, machinery
 and motor vehicles for the official use by the Kenya Defence Forces and
the National Police Service.
       16. Locally manufactured passenger motor vehicles:
 Provided that in this paragraph,
            "locally manufactured passenger motor vehicle" means a motor
vehicle for the transportation of passengers which is manufactured in
   Kenya and whose ex-factory value comprises at least thirty percent of
local content;
       "local content" means parts designed and manufactured in Kenya by
an original equipment manufacturer operating in Kenya.
Section 7 of Cap.469C it is proposed to amend-
 Import declaration fee
 (I) There shall be paid a fee to be known as the import declaration
fee, on all goods imported into the country for home use.


               The Finance Bill, 2024                                 667
 (2) The fee shall be at the rate of two point five per cent of the
customs value of the goods and shall be paid by the importer of such
goods at the time of entering the goods for home use.
  (3) Despite subsection (1)
  (a) import declaration fee shall not be charged on the goods specified
  in Part A of the Second Schedule when imported or purchased
  before clearance through customs; or
 (4) An importer of goods other than goods specified in Part A of the
Second Schedule shall complete the prescribed import declaration form.
  (5) An importer shall present a copy of the import declaration form
completed under subsection (4) to the Commissioner at the time of
entering the goods for home use.
  (⑥) Out of the fee collected under subsection (2), ten per cent shall be
paid into a Fund established and managed in accordance with the Public
Finance Management Act, (No.18 of 2012).
 (7) The monies in the Fund under subsection (6) shall be used for the
 payment of Kenya's contributions to the African Union and any other
 international organization to which Kenya has a financial obligation.
 Second schedule to Cap. 469C it is proposed to amend-
SECOND SCHEDULE
[s. 7(3)(a)]
 GOODS EXEMPT FROM IMPORT DECLARATION
FEE AND RAILWAY DEVELOPMENT LEVY
 PART A
GOODS EXEMPT FROM IMPORT DECLARATION FEE WHEN
IMPORTED OR
 PURCHASED BEFORE CLEARANCE THROUGH CUSTOMS
  The following goods are exempt from payment of import declaration
 fee when imported or purchased before clearance through customs—
  (xxv) All goods including material supplies, equipment, machinery
       and motor vehicles for the official use by the Kenya Defence
       Forces and National Police Service:


 668                       The Finance Bill, 2024

                           PART B (s. 8(6))
            GOODS EXEMPT FROM THE RAILWAY DEVELOPMENT LEVY
             WHEN IMPORTED OR PURCHASED BEFORE CLEARANCE
                           THROUGH CUSTOMS
      The railway development levy shall not apply to goods imported or
 purchased before clearance through customs—
   (ix) All goods including material supplies, equipment, machinery and
        motor vehicles for the official use by the Kenya Defence Forces
        and National Police Service;
Third schedule to Cap.496C it is proposed to amend-
THIRD SCHEDULE
[s. 7(3)(a)]
GOODS EXEMPT FROM IMPORT DECLARATION
FEE AND RAILWAY DEVELOPMENT LEVY
 Tariff No. Tariff Description Export and Rate
            investment promotion levy
 2523.10.00 Cement Clinkers                       17.5 % of the customs
                                                  value
 7207.11.00 Semi-finished products of iron or 17.5 % of the customs
            non-alloy  steel containing, by value
            weight, <0.25% of  carbon;of
            rectangular (including square)cross-
            section, the width measuring less than
            twice the thickness
 7213.91.10 Bars and rods of iron or non-alloy 17.5 % of the customs
            steel, hot rolled,in irregularly wound value
            coils of circular cross-section
                       measuring less than 14mm in
               diameter of cross section measuring
            less than 8 mm
 7213.91.90 Bars and rods of iron or non-alloy 17.5 % of the customs
            steel, hotrolled, in irregularly wound value
            coils of circular cross-section
            measuring less than 14mm in
            diameter; other


            The Finance Bill, 2024                     669
Tariff No. TariffDescription  Export       and Rate
            investment promotion levy
4804.11.00  Uncoated kraft paper           and 10 % of the customs
            paperboard, in rolls or sheets; Kraft value
            liner; Unbleached
4804.21.00 Sack kraft paper; Unbleached    10 % of the customs
                                           value
   4804.31.00 Other kraft paper and paperboard 10 % of the customs
            weighing  150     g/m2         on value
            less:Unbleached
 4819.30.00 Sacks and bags, having a base of a 10 % of the customs
            width of 40 cm or more.        value
    4819.40.00 Other sacks and bags. including 10 % of the customs
            cones.                         value


Section 19 of Cap. 469B it is proposed to amend-
19. Application for tax agent licence
(1) An individual or a partnership may apply to the Commissioner for
a licence as a tax agent.
An application under subsection (1) shall be in the prescribed
form and accompanied by the prescribed fee.
(3) An applicant shall, in addition to the requirements set out in
subsections (1) and (2), be required to be recommended for registration by
the Tax Agents Committee.
Section 22 of Cap. 469 B it is proposed to amend-
22. Cancellation of tax agent's licence
(1) A tax agent who ceases to carry on business as a tax agent shall
  notify the Commissioner in writing at least seven days before ceasing to
carry on business as a tax agent.
         () A tax agent may apply in writing to the Commissioner to cancel
the licence.
(3) The Commissioner shall cancel the licence of a tax agent if-


670                         The Finance Bill, 2024
       ) a tax return prepared and filed by the tax agent is false in any
       material particular, unless the tax agent satisfies the
   Commissioner that the falsification was not due to any wilful or
       negligent conduct of the tax agent;
       (b) the tax agent ceases to satisfy the conditions for licensing as a tax
       agent;
       (c) the tax agent has ceased to carry on business as a tax agent.
       (4) The Commissioner shall notify a tax agent in writing of the
cancellation of the licence.
on     (5) The cancellation of the licence of a tax agent shall take effect
              te ate the x aent cea t carry n ues s  x an;
       (a) the date the tax agent ceases to carry on business as a tax agent; or
      (b) sixty days after the tax agent has been notified by the
       Commissioner of the cancellation of the tax agent's licence,
       whichever is the earlier.
Section 23A of Cap 469B it is proposed to amend
       23A Electronic tax invoice
            (1) The Commissioner may establish an electronic system through
which electronic tax invoices may be issued, and records of stocks kept for
the purposes of this Act.
   (2) A person who carries on business shall
   (a) Issue an electronic tax invoice through the system established
       under subsection (1); and
     b) Maintain a record of stocks in the system established under
       subsection (1).
   Where an electronic tax invoice required to ascertain tax liability
is issued by a resident person or the permanent establishment of a non-
resident person, that invoice shall be generated through the system
established under subsection (1).
         () The electronic tax invoice referred to in subsection (3) may
exclude emoluments, imports, investment allowances, interest, airline
passenger ticketing and similar payments.
            (5) The Commissioner may, by notice in the Gazette, exempt a
person from the requirements of this section.
Section 42 of Cap. 469B it is proposed to amend-
   4.Power to collect tax from person owing money to a taxpayer
   (1) This section applies when a taxpayer is, or will become liable to
pay a tax and-


                     The Finance Bill, 2024                            671
  (a) the tax is unpaid tax; or
  (b) the Commissioner has reasonable grounds to believe that the
       taxpayer will not pay the tax by the due date for the payment of
       the tax.
          (2) The Commissioner may, in respect of the taxpayer and by notice
in writing, require a person (referred to as the "an agent")-
 (a) who owes or may subsequently owe money to the taxpayer;
         (b) who holds or may subsequently hold money, for or on account of.
        the taxpayer;
             (c) who holds or may subsequently hold money on account of some
        other person for payment to the taxpayer; or
        other person for payment to the taxpayer; or
            (d) who has authority from some other person to pay money to the
                  taxpayer, to pay the amount specified in the notice to the
                  taxpayer, to pay the amount specified in the notice to the
              Commissioner, being an amount that shall not exceed the amount
              Commissioner, being an amount that shall not exceed the amount
                of the unpaid tax or the amount of tax that the Commissioner
                of the unpaid tax or the amount of tax that the Commissioner
                believes will not be paid by the taxpayer by the due date.
                believes will not be paid by the taxpayer by the due date.
          (3) When a notice served under subsection (2) requires an agent to
          (3) When a notice served under subsection (2) requires an agent to
        deduct a specified amount from a payment of a salary, wages or other
        deduct a spccified amount from a payment of a salary, wages or other
 similar remuneration payable at fixed intervals to the taxpayer, the amount
 similar remuneration payable at fixed intervals to the taxpayer, the amount
     required to be deducted by the agent from each payment shall not exceed
     required to be deducted by the agent from each payment shall not exceed
    twenty per cent of the amount of each payment of salary, wages, or other
    twenty per cent of the amount of each payment of salary, wages, or other
remuneration (after the payment of income tax).
 remuneration (after the payment of income tax).
  (4) This section shall apply to a joint account when
  (4) This section shall apply to a joint account when
 (a) all the holders of the joint account have unpaid tax liabilities; or
  (a) all the holders of the joint account have unpaid tax liabilities; or
          (b) the taxpayer can withdraw funds from the account (other than a
          (b) the taxpayer can withdraw funds from the account (other than a
          partnership account) without the signature or authorisation of the
          partnership account) without the signature or authorisation of the
        other account holders.
        other account holders.
               (5) An agent shall pay the amount specified in a notice under
               (5) An agent shall pay the amount specified in a notice under
  subsection (2) by the date specified in the notice, being a date that that
  subsection (2) by the date specified in the notice, being a date that that
      does not occur before the date that the amount owed by an agent to the
      does not occur before the date that the amount owed by an agent to the
taxpayer becomes due to the taxpayer or held on the taxpayer's behalf.
 taxpayer becomes due to the taxpayer or held on the taxpayer's behalf.
                   (6) When an agent who has been served with a notice under
                   (6) When an agent who has been served with a notice under
       subsection (2) fails to comply with the notice by reason of a lack of
       subsection (2) fails to comply with the notice by reason of a lack of
 monies held by the agent on behalf of, or due by the agent to the taxpayer,
 monies held by the agent on behalf of, or due by the agent to the taxpayer,
  the agent shall notify the Commissioner in writing within fourteen days of
  the agent shall notify the Commissioner in writing within fourteen days of
  receiving the notice, setting out the reasons for the agent's inability to
        receiving the notice, setting out the reasons for the agent's inability to
comply.
 comply.


  672    The Finance Bill, 2024
            (7) When the Commissioner is notified by an agent under subsection
    (6) that the agent is unable to pay the amount due, the Commissioner shall
  within a period of thirty days, in writing to an agent-
         (a) accept the notification and cancel or amend the notice issued
         under subsection (2); or
         (b) reject the notification.
         (8) The Commissioner shall notify an agent in writing of a revocation
  or amendment of a notice given under subsection (2) where the taxpayer
  pays the whole or part of the tax due or has made an arrangement
  satisfactory to the Commissioner for the payment of the tax.
            (9) The Commissioner shall serve the taxpayer with a copy of a
  notice under this subsection (2), when serving the agent.
         (10) A payment made by an agent to the Commissioner in accordance
 with a notice issued under this section is treated as having been made on
  behalf of the taxpayer and shall discharge an agent of any liability to the
 taxpayer or any other person.
   (11) The Commissioner shall credit any amount paid by an agent
 under this section against the tax owed by the taxpayer.
         (12) The Commissioner may require, in writing, any person, within a
 period of atleast thirty days, to provide a return to the Commissioner
showing any monies which may be held by that person for a taxpayer
referred to in subsection (1) or monies held by that person which are due
to a taxpayer referred to in subsection (1).
  (13) A taxpayer who without reasonable cause fails to comply with a
 notice or a requirement by the Commissioner under this section shall be
 personally liable for the amount specified in the notice or requirement.
  (14) The Commissioner shall not issue a notice under this section
unless
   a) The taxpayer has defaulted in paying an instalment under section
         33(2):
   b) The Commissioner has raised an assessment and the taxpayer has
         not   objected to or challenged the validity of the assessment
         within the prescribed period:
   c) The taxpayer has not appealed against an assessment specified in
         an objection decision within the prescribed timelines:
   d) The taxpayer has made a self-assessment and submitted a return
         but has not paid the taxes due before the due date lapsed; or


                   The Finance Bill, 2024                           673
    e) The taxpayer has not appealed against an assessment specified in a
           decision of the Tribunal or court
    Section 42A of Cap.469 it is proposed to amend-
    42A Appointment of Value Added Tax withholding agent
    (1) The Commissioner may appoint a person to withhold two per cent
   of the taxable value on purchasing taxable supplies at the time of paying
   for the supplies and remit the same directly to the Commissioner.
    Provided that the withholding tax shall not apply to the taxable value
   of zero-rated supplies and registered manufacturers whose value of
investment in the preceding three years from Ist July, 2022 is at least three
   billion.
    (2) The Commissioner may, at any time, revoke the appointment of a
   tax withholding agent made under subsection (1), if the Commissioner
   deems it appropriate to do so.
     (3) Subsection (1) shall not apply to taxable supplies for official aid-
   funded projects.
    (④) For the avoidance of doubt, the withholding of tax under
   subsection (1) shall not relieve the supplier of taxable supplies of the
   obligation to account for tax in accordance with this Act and the
   regulations.
    (4B) The tax withheld under this section shall be remitted to the
   Commissioner within five working days after the deduction was made.
             (4C) A person who is required under this section to withhold tax
   commits an offence if the person —
    (a) fails to withhold the whole amount of the tax which should have
           been withheld; or
    (b) fails to remit the amount of the withheld tax to the Commissioner
           by the fifth working day after the deduction was made.
                (4D) A person who commits an offence under subsection (4C) is
   liable on conviction to a penalty of ten per cent of the amount involved.
             (5) A person who, prior to the commencement of this section, was
   appointed to withhold tax under section 25A of the Value Added Tax Act
   (Cap. 476) shall, notwithstanding the repeal of that section, be deemed to
   be a person appointed under subsection (1), provided that this provision
   shall not be construed to impose any penalty whatsoever on any such
   person who ceased to withhold tax for any period following the repeal of
   that section up to the 8th June, 2016.


674                     The Finance Bill, 2024
Section 47 of Cap. 469B it is proposed to amend-
       47. Offset or refund of overpaid tax
       (1) Where a taxpayer has overpaid a tax under any tax law, the
taxpayer may apply to the Commissioner, in the prescribed form—
          (a) to offset the overpaid tax against the taxpayer's outstanding tax
        debts and future tax liabilities; or
       (b) for a refund of the overpaid tax within five years, or six months in
       the case of value added tax, after the date on which the tax was
        overpaid.
              (2) The Commissioner shall ascertain and determine an application
under subsection (1) within ninety days and where the Commissioner
ascertains that there was an overpayment of tax —
        (a) in the case of an application under subsection (I)(a), apply the
         overpaid tax to such outstanding tax debts or future tax liability;
       and
       (b) in the case of an application under subsection (I)(b), refund the
        overpaid tax within a period of six months from the date of
       ascertainment and, if the Commissioner fails to refund, the
        overpaid tax shall be applied to offset the taxpayer's outstanding
        tax debt or future tax liabilities.
       (3) Where the Commissioner fails to ascertain and determine an
application under subsection (1) within ninety days, the same shall be
deemed ascertained and approved.
       (4) The Commissioner may for purposes of ascertaining the validity
of an application under subsection (1), subject the application to an audit.
        (4A) Where an application under subsection (1) has been subjected to
an audit under subsection (4), the Commissioner shall ascertain and
    determine the application within one hundred- and twenty-days failure to
which, the application shall be deemed to have been ascertained and
approved.
       (5) Where the application is for a refund of tax under subsection
(1)(b), the Commissioner shall apply the overpayment in the following
order-
       (a) in payment of any other tax owing by the taxpayer under the
       specific tax law;
       (b) in payment of a tax owing by the taxpayer under any other tax
       law:and


                                                                 675
                         The Finance Bill, 2024                  675
    (c) any remainder shall be refunded to the taxpayer.
    (6) Where the Commissioner fails to refund the overpaid tax within
the period specified in subsection (2)(b), the amount due shall attract
interest of one per cent for each month or part thereof during which the
amount remains unpaid.
          (7) Where the Commissioner notifies a taxpayer that an application
   under subsection (I)(a) has been ascertained and applies the overpaid tax
liability to offset an outstanding tax in accordance with subsection (2)(a).
interest or penalties shall not accrue on the amount applied to offsetting
the outstanding tax liability from the date of the notification.
    (8) Where the Commissioner has applied the overpaid tax to offset an
outstanding tax liability under subsection (2)(a), any outstanding tax after
such application shall accrue interest and penalties in accordance with this
Act.
    (9) Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, where a
person overpays an instalment tax due under section 12 of the Income Tax
Act (Cap. 470), the Commissioner shall apply the overpaid tax to offset
the taxpayer's future instalment tax liability.
    (10) Where, after the application of the overpaid tax under subsection
(9), the Commissioner later determines that there was no overpayment of
instalment tax, the amount of the tax that was used to offset the taxpayer's
future instalment tax liabilities under subsection (9) shall be treated as a
tax due to the Commissioner in the subsequent tax period.
    (1 1) The amount due under subsection (10) shall be due from the date
that the Commissioner applied that amount to offset an instalment tax
liability.
    (12) The Commissioner shall notify the taxpayer in writing of the
amount due under subsection (10) and specify in the notification—
    (a) the interest on the amount due; and
 (b) any penalties due in respect of the amount due.
 (13) A person aggrieved by a decision of the Commissioner under
this section may appeal to the Tribunal within thirty days after being
notified of the decision.
Section 51 of Cap. 469B it is proposed to amend-
    51. Objection to tax decision
    (I) A taxpayer who wishes to dispute a tax decision shall first lodge
an objection against that tax decision under this section before proceeding
under any other written law.


 676                     The Finance Bill, 2024
               (2) A taxpayer who disputes a tax decision may lodge a notice of
 objection to the decision, in writing, with the Commissioner within thirty
 days of being notified of the decision.
              (3) A notice of objection shall be treated as validly lodged by a
 taxpayer under subsection (2) if—
        (a) the notice of objection states precisely the grounds of objection,
         the amendments required to be made to correct the decision, and
         the reasons for the amendments;
        (b) in relation to an objection to an assessment, the taxpayer has paid
         the entire amount of tax due under the assessment that is not in
         dispute, or has applied for an extension of time to pay the tax not
         in dispute under section 33(1); and
        (c) all the relevant documents relating to the objection have been
        submitted
        (④) Where the Commissioner has determined that a notice of
                objection lodged by a taxpayer has not been validly lodged, the
     Commissioner shall within a period of fourteen days notify the taxpayer in
         writing that the objection has not been validly lodged and request the
 taxpayer to submit the information specified in the notice within seven
 days after the date of the notice.
        (4A) Despite subsection (3), where a taxpayer fails to provide the
 information required under subsection (4) or fails to provide the
 information within the specified period, the Commissioner may make an
 objection decision within sixty days after the date on which the notice of
 objection was lodged.
        (5) Where the tax decision to which a notice of objection relates is an
amended assessment, the taxpayer may only object to the alterations and
additions made to the original assessment.
     (6) A taxpayer may apply in writing to the Commissioner for an
extension of time to lodge a notice of objection.
   (7) The Commissioner shall consider and may allow an application
 under subsection (6) if-
            (a) the taxpayer was prevented from lodging the notice of objection
        within the period specified in subsection (2) because of an
        absence from Kenya, sickness or other reasonable cause; and
           (b) the taxpayer did not unreasonably delay in lodging the notice of
        objection.


                           The Finance Bill, 2024        677
(7A) The Commissioner shall notify the taxpayer of the decision
made under subsection (7) within fourteen days after receipt of the
application.
       (8) Where a notice of objection has been validly lodged within time,
the Commissioner shall consider the objection and decide either to allow
the objection in whole or in part, or disallow it, and Commissioner's
decision shall be referred to as an "objection decision".
           (9) The Commissioner shall notify in writing the taxpayer of the
objection decision and shall take all necessary steps to give effect to the
decision, including, in the case of an objection to an assessment, making
an amended assessment.
(10) An objection decision shall include a statement of findings on
the material facts and the reasons for the decision.
(11) The Commissioner shall make the objection decision within
sixty days from the date of receipt of a valid notice of objection failure to
which the objection shall be deemed to be allowed.
     (12) A person who is dissatisfied with the decision of the
Commissioner under subsection (11) may appeal to the Tribunal within
thirty days after being notified of the decision.
Section 59A of Cap. 469B it is proposed to amend-
59A. Data management and reporting system
(1) The Commissioner may establish a data management and
reporting system for the submission of electronic documents including
detailed transactional data relating to those documents.
②) The Commissioner shall notify in writing the persons required to
submit electronic documents through the system established under
subsection (1).
   (3) The electronic documents referred to in subsection (2) include
electronic invoice returns-
  (a) of payments made by a person in the ordinary course of business
  where goods were exchanged for consideration by a person not
  employed in the business;
 (b) For payments made by a person in the ordinary course of business
  where services were rendered, or in anticipation of services to be
  rendered, by a person not employed in the business;
 (c) For payments for services rendered, or in anticipation of services
  to be rendered, in connection with the formation, acquisition,


678              The Finance Bill, 2024
         development, or disposal of a business or a part of it, by persons
         not employed in the business;
        (d) For periodical or lump sum payments in respect of a royalty; or
        (e) For such other commercial or financial transaction as may be
         designated by the Commissioner.
        (4) For the purposes of this section—
        (a) "transactional data" includes—
         (i) The names and addresses of each person to whom a payment
         was made;
         (ii) where the payment is for services, the amount of the payment
         specifying whether the payment is a commission of any kind
         or is for expenses incurred in connection with rendering the
         services;
         (iii) Where the payment is in any form of valuable consideration
         other than money, the particulars of the consideration; and
        (iv) Such other particulars as the Commissioner may specify;
               (b) References to payments for services include references to
             payments in the nature of commission of any kind and references
              to payments in respect of expenses incurred in connection with
        the rendering of services; and
       (c) references to the making of payments include references to the
           giving of any form of valuable consideration, and the requirement
              imposed by paragraph (a)(iii) to state the amount of a payment
         shall, in relation to any consideration given otherwise than in the
           form of money, be construed as a requirement to give particulars
        of the consideration.
Section 77 of Cap. 469 B it is proposed to amend-
77. Due date for submission and payment
If the date for-
       (a) submitting or lodging a tax return, application, notice, or other
        document;
       (b) the payment of a tax; or
(c) taking any other action under a tax law,
falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or public holiday in Kenya, the due date
shall be the previous working day:


                                                       679
                            The Finance Bill, 2024     679
 Provided that where a person who submits a notice of objection in
     electronic form or a tax return in electronic form, or pays the tax
 electronically, the due date shall remain the date specified in the relevant
tax law.
Section 83 of Cap.469B it is proposed to amend-
 83. Late submission penalty
 (1) A person who submits a tax return after the due date shall be
liable to a penalty—
       (a) of twenty-five percent of the tax due or ten thousand shillings
 whichever is higher, if it is in relation to a return required to be
 submitted on account of employment income;
(b) one thousand shillings if it is in relation to a return required to be
 submitted under Turnover Tax; or
    (c) five per cent of the amount of tax payable under the return or ten
        thousand shillings, whichever is the higher, if it is in relation to
        value added tax or excise duty;
(d) in any other case-
 i)five per cent of the amount of tax payable under the return or
        twenty thousand shillings, whichever is the higher, in respect
        of a person other than an individual; or
  ii five per cent of the amount of tax payable under the return or
            two thousand shillings, whichever is the higher, for an
        individual.
       Provided that in the calculation of the late submission penalty for
      purposes of this section, the amount of tax payable or due under the
return shall be reduced by the amounts already paid and withholding
 tax credits.
First schedule to Cap.469B it is proposed to amend-
FIRST SCHEDULE
TRANSACTIONS FOR WHICH A PIN IS REQUIRED
(1) Registration of titles and stamping of instruments.
(2) Approval of development plans and payment of water deposits.
(3) Registration of motor vehicles, transfer of motor vehicles, and
licensing of motor vehicles.
(4) Registration of business names:


680                       The Finance Bill, 2024
        (5) Registration of companies.
        (6) Underwriting of insurance policies.
       (7) Trade licensing
       (8) Importation of goods and customs clearing and forwarding.
       (9) Payment of deposits for power connections.
       (10) All contracts for the supply of goods and services to
 Government Ministries and public bodies.
       (11) Opening accounts with financial institutions and investment
 banks.
       (12) Registration and renewal of membership by professional bodies
 and other licensing agencies.
       (13) Registration of mobile cellular pay bill and till numbers by
 telecommunication operators.
       14. Carrying out business over the internet or an electronic network
 including through a digital marketplace.
        15. Registration of a trust.
 Section 54 of No. 4 of 2024 it is proposed to amend-
       54. Restrictions to owners of affordable housing unit
       Except with the prior written consent of the Board, a purchaser of an
 affordable housing unit under this Act shall not by contract, agreement or
 otherwise, sell or agree to sell his or her unit or any interest therein to any
 other person.
Section 5B of Cap.237 it is proposed to amend-
       5B. Training levies
       (1) The Commissioner-General of the body responsible for the
assessment and collection of revenue shall be responsible for collecting
training levies from employers.
       (2) For purposes of this Act, the Commissioner-General shall have all
the powers conferred on the Commissioner-General by the Kenya
Revenue Authority Act (Cap. 469) and Income Tax Act (Cap. 470).
       (3) An employer shall pay the training levy to the Commissioner-
 General at the time when an employee's salary is payable and shall be
remitted to the Commissioner-General not later than the fifth day of the
month following the month in which the levy becomes due.


                        The Finance Bill, 2024                      681

 (4) The training levy collected under this section shall be paid into
the Training Levy Fund.
 (5) A training levy shall not be deducted from the emoluments of an
employee.
 (6) Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Income Tax Act (Cap.
470) and the Kenya Revenue Authority Act (Cap. 469) shall apply in this
Act including in respect of—
 (a) the payment and recovery of the levies and penalties:
 (b) assessment of levy payable;
 (c) filing of returns;
 (d) the furnishing of information and production of documents; and
 (e) keeping of records.
Section 51 of Cap 411C it is proposed to amend-
 51. General exemptions
 (1) Nothing in this Part shall exempt any data controller or data
processor from complying with data protection principles relating to
lawful processing, minimisation of collection, data quality, and adopting
security safeguards to protect personal data.
 (2) The processing of personal data is exempt from the provisions of
this Act if-
 (a) it relates to processing of personal data by an individual in the
 course of a purely personal or household activity;
 (b) if it is necessary for national security or public interest; or
 (c) disclosure is required by or under any written law or by an order
 of the court.
Section 194 of Cap 412A it is proposed to amend-
 194. Functions of the Board
 (1) The Accounting Standards Board shall provide frameworks and
set generally accepted standards for the development and management of
accounting and financial systems by all State organs and public entities,
and shall in particular perform the following functions—
 (a) set generally accepted accounting and financial standards;
 (b) prescribe the minimum standards of maintenance of proper books
 of account for all levels of Government;


  682          The Finance Bill, 2024
         (c) prescribe internal audit procedures which comply with this Act;
         (d) prescribe formats for financial statements and reporting by all
         state organs and public entities;
             (e) publish and publicise the accounting and financial standards and
         any directives and guidelines prescribed by the Board;
         (f) in consultation with the Cabinet Secretary on the effective dates of
                         implementation of these standards, Gazette the dates for
         application of the standards and guidelines; and
         (g) perform any other functions related to advancing financial and
         accounting systems management and reporting in the public
         sector.
         (2) In setting the standards under subsection (1), the Board shall take
  into account any relevant factors including—
         (a) best international accounting practices; and
         (b) the capacity of the relevant entity to comply with the standards.
         (3) The Board may set different standards for different categories of
  entities to which these standards apply including to develop content,
  structure and format of county frameworks and accounting and financial
  guidelines which are in line with the setting of county standards.
         (4) The Board shall monitor the adherence to the standards by all
  State organs and public entities.
         (5) The standards set by the Board shall promote transparency and
  other Constitutional values and principles in effective, prudence and
 efficient management of revenue, expenditure, assets and liabilities of the
 institutions to Which these standards apply.
 First Schedule to Cap. 469 it is proposed to amend-
 FIRST SCHEDULE
[s.2&5]
  WRITTEN LAWS RELATING TO REVENUE
PARTI
  1. The Income Tax Act (Cap. 470).
2. Spent.
 3. The Value Added Tax Act (Cap. 476).
 4. The Road Maintenance Levy Fund Act (Cap. 427).


         The Finance Bill, 2024                               683
                                                              683
 5. The Air Passenger Service Charge Act (Cap. 475).
 6. The Entertainment Tax Act (Cap. 479).
 7. The East African Community Customs Management Act, 2004.
 8.The Annexes to the Protocol on the Establishment of the East African
  Community Customs Union.
9.Spent.
  10. Excise Duty Act (Cap. 472).
  I I. Tax Procedures Act (Cap. 469B).
  12. Miscellaneous Fees and Levies Act (Cap. 469C)
13. The Alcoholic Drinks Act (Cap. 121).
PARTII
1. The Traffic Act (Cap. 403)
2. Spent.
3. The Second-Hand Motor Vehicles Purchase Tax Act (Cap. 484).
4. The Civil Aviation Act (Cap. 394).
5. The Widows' and Children's Pensions Act (Cap. 195).
6. The Parliamentary Pensions Act (Cap. 196).
7. The Betting, Lotteries and Gaming Act (Cap. 131).
8. The Stamp Duty Act (Cap. 480).
9. The Horticultural Crops Development Authority (Imposition of Fees
  and Charges) Order, 1995 (L.N. 225 of 1995).
10. The Standards Levy Order, 1990 (L.N. 267 of 1990).
10A. The Industrial Training Act (Cap. 237).
11. The Government Lands Act (Cap. 280).
12. The Sugar Act (No. 10 of 2001) (Repealed).
13. The National Social Security Fund Act (Cap. 258).
14. Public Finance Management Act (Cap. 412A).
15. The Affordable Housing Act, 2024.


NO_CONTENT_HERE